Thank you to all those who have written letters to the editor about “A Word from… Abigail Thompson” in the Decem.ber 2019 Notices. I appreciate your sharing your thoughts on this important topic with the community. This section contains letters received through December 31, 2019, posted in the order in which they were received. We are no longer updating this page with letters in response to “A Word from… Abigail Thompson.” —Erica Flapan, Editor in Chief Re: Letter by Abigail Thompson Dear Editor, I am writing regarding the article in Vol. 66, No. 11, of the Notices of the AMS, written by Abigail Thompson. As a mathematics professor, I am very concerned about en.suring that the intellectual community of mathematicians is focused on rigor and rational thought. I believe that discrimination is antithetical to this ideal: to paraphrase the Greek geometer, there is no royal road to mathematics, because before matters of pure reason, we are all on an equal footing. In my own pursuit of this goal, I work to mentor mathematics students from diverse and disadvan.taged backgrounds, including volunteering to help tutor students at other institutions. Their success, despite their non-traditional backgrounds, is a great confirmation of my belief that great mathematicians can come from any.where, and that we must help those whose histories have left them at a disadvantage compared to more stereotypical mathematics students. I am nonetheless in complete agreement with Dr. Thompson that demands for ideological conformity are just as antithetical to the ideal of reason to which we mathematicians strive. We must remain free to hold our own ideologies, as well as to debate policies and methods for implementing those ideologies. This includes allowing professors of mathematics to debate how best to ensure that our community can be fair, open, and welcoming to people of all backgrounds, and not requiring that everyone subscribe to the same ideas without question. Thompson is correct to say that the UC system’s policies are troubling. I am grateful for her letter. Sincerely, Blake Winter Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Medaille College (Received November 20, 2019) Letter to the Editor I am writing in support of Abigail Thompson’s opinion piece (AMS Notices, 66(2019), 1778–1779). We should all be grateful to her for such a thoughtful argument against mandatory “Diversity Statements” for job applicants. As she so eloquently stated, “The idea of using a political test as a screen for job applicants should send a shiver down our collective spine.” It is especially pleasing to find her article grounded in the history of a similar incident and so generous to those who feel differently. In addition, I thank Erica Flapan for publishing this article. Avoiding troubling issues is always the easiest path. It is good to see the Notices willing to explore controversial topics that are of great importance to the mathematical community and to academia in general. Well done! —George E. Andrews Past President, American Mathematical Society (Received November 21, 2019) AbbyThompson’s opinion piece To the editor: I applaud your running Thompson’s piece about the ‘diversity criterion’ in hiring. I am not yet sure of my position on this matter: I can see several ways of looking at the issue. But I find Thompson’s essay thought provoking and well reasoned, and it will contribute to my understanding of the issue. I know that certain segments of academia will disagree with Thompson’s view. That is not at issue. I know too that certain segments will disapprove of Thompson’s opinion being aired in the Notices. I write to let you know that my feeling is otherwise. Whatever one’s opinion about the ‘di.versity statement’ issue, it is important to hear reasonably argued opinions other than one’s own. Is there a need to balance Thompson’s piece with an ‘equal and opposite’ piece? Not necessarily, unless such a piece contributes in the same way to the discussion. It is enough to call the question, as Thompson does. I thank you for keeping the Notices fresh and useful in the field. —Mark Saul, PhD Executive Director, Julia Robinson Mathematics Festival A program of the American Institute of Mathematics (Received November 21, 2019) Letter About Abby Thompson To the editor: I applaud Professor Abby Thompson’s principled stand against mandated diversity statements (AMS Notices, 66(2019), 1778–1779), and I also want to congratulate the Notices for publishing her opinion piece. Loyalty Oath Redux, in the form of mandated diversity statements, will not ad.vance the cause of either higher education or social justice. —H. Wu Professor Emeritus of Mathematics University of California at Berkeley (Received November 22, 2019) Abigail Thompson’s piece in the December Notices Dear editor, I am appalled and greatly disappointed by the AMS’s de.cision to publish Abigail Thompson’s piece in the Decem.ber Notices. You have greatly damaged the respectability and credibility of the entire AMS by bestowing its imprimatur on a piece whose main argument is flat-out fear mongering, by building a false equivalency between certain debatable hiring practices and McCarthyism. To make matters worse, the apology offered on the AMS’ twitter by the Notices’ Editor-in-chief reveals a deep lack of understanding of both the issue at hand and the responsibilities of her position. The issue is not that “[the] piece could be interpreted as representing the views of our professional society,” but rather that by choosing to publish it, the Notices (and the AMS at large) is effectively endorsing if not its content, at the very least its tactics. Of course the Notices should be a forum for discussion of all sorts of issues that affect us as mathematicians, but said discussions ought to be conducted in a professional manner. I expect the Notices to NOT give a platform to ad hominem attacks and other similar logical fallacies often used to mask the lack of substantive arguments. Thomp.son’s essay does not pass this simple test, as it is very much centered on an attention-grabbing comparison that many people will find obscene instead of reasoning and facts that would support the author’s point. I expect the AMS to take responsibility for the misguided decisions that allowed this to happen, and also take the opportunity to improve the editorial practices at the Notices. Respectfully, Alejandro Chávez-Domínguez Assistant Professor Department of Mathematics College of Arts & Sciences The University of Oklahoma (Received November 22, 2019) The math community values a commitment to diversity We are a group of concerned mathematicians writing in re.sponse to AMS Vice President Abigail Thompson’s editorial, invited by the AMS for publication in the December 2019 edition of the Notices. In this editorial, Dr. Thompson states her personal opinion against the mandated use of faculty diversity statements in hiring decisions and compares such requirements to McCarthyist loyalty oaths. We are all members of many mathematical societies, including the American Mathematical Society. Some of us serve on committees in these societies or are chairs of committees in these societies. Some of us are or have been chairs of departments, some of us are or have been chairs of search committees, and some of us have written or reviewed diversity statements as part of search processes. We have all thought deeply about the role of diversity statements and related tools, such as student success statements. We are compelled to write because the AMS leadership’s actions have harmed the mathematics community, partic.ularly mathematicians from marginalized backgrounds. We are writing because we support diversity statements as one tool to encourage a more inclusive and equitable mathematics profession. We are writing because we wish to correct the misleading impressions readers might have of such statements from Thompson’s editorial: Thompson’s opinion does not represent the opinions of many other members of the mathematics community. We are writing because not everyone is in a position to raise their voice. We are writing because it matters how our community and its leaders talk about diversity, especially in our profession’s most prominent publication. We are writing because we are disappointed by the editorial decision to publish the piece which contradicts the AMS’s commitment to diver.sity affirmed in its own diversity statement (www.ams.org /diversity). Clearly, this is something that people needed to talk about, but the AMS has chosen to spark this conver.sation by giving its imprimatur to a piece that undermines productive discussion and causes real danger and burden to the marginalized members of our community. Diversity statements are widely used in academic hiring as one component to assess candidates’ qualifications for the job. Each statement one requires as part of a hiring process—research, teaching, mentoring, service, or diver.sity—helps paint a picture of how a candidate will contrib.ute to the work of an institution. Increased use of diversity statements reflects a growing recognition in higher educa.tion that faculty contribute in positive ways to the campus community by acknowledging, appreciating, and collabo.rating with groups of students, staff, and fellow faculty who are diverse along varied axes. In acknowledgment that this is part of the work of a faculty member and of the hiring process, we recommend that graduate programs explicitly prepare their graduates to contribute to this work and to write and talk about it meaningfully, and we commend the programs already undertaking this work. There are plenty of legitimate questions about how to use diversity statements effectively and how (more broadly) to create diverse and supportive faculties. In order to reduce bias in the evaluation of candidates, hiring committees evaluate statements according to criteria that indicate evidence of these important contributions, grounded in the missions of higher education in general and their in.stitution in particular. Asking for and evaluating diversity statements are not quick solutions to the complex challenge of justice and inclusion in higher education, but they can help hiring committees to evaluate candidates’ skills in doing this portion of our professional work. Diversity statements help assess a candidate’s ability to effectively teach a diverse group of students. If our goal as mathematicians and educators is truly to reach as many students as possible, thinking about diversity and inclu.sion is necessary. Good teaching is necessarily inclusive. If we willfully ignore an important area of pedagogy that demonstrably helps more students succeed in math, then we will continue to reproduce systems of inequity, and we will do a great disservice to our students. We will therefore not be effective teachers. Suggesting that actively attempting to include more students in mathematics is equivalent to the Red Scare is ignorant (about both history and the present) and danger.ous. Claims of “reverse racism,” which equate critiquing privilege with oppressing the privileged, have a long and unsavory history in and beyond higher education. Without understanding the history in which these discussions are rooted, it is possible to profess support for the ideal of equality while acting in ways that lead to exclusion and inequity. While Dr. Thompson attempts to spin this issue with partisan wording, diversity statements are a small yet nec.essary step towards creating a more equitable and inclusive community. Higher education in the US is shifting; student populations we serve are changing, and our understanding of how to better serve all students is advancing. We need a rehumanization of mathematics that can affirm students’ cultural funds of knowledge while examining and com.bating its own roles in supporting power structures. We need leadership at all levels, from professional societies to presidents, boards, deans, and chairs, to recognize this reality, advocate for students and faculty from a variety of backgrounds, and move us forward. Dr. Thompson’s preface that the letter is her “personal opinion” does not alleviate our concerns, nor does the fact that she seems to be referring primarily to the use of these documents at the UC system. The fact remains that the Notices made an editorial decision to give Thompson’s essay a national (indeed, international) platform, and in a prominent position within the publication. Notices is a publication of the AMS, and Dr. Thompson is identified as an AMS officer in her byline. According to Notices editor Erica Flapan, Dr. Thompson’s position in the AMS leader.ship led the AMS to solicit her letter. These contextual de.tails send a message to the profession about how diversity is viewed by those with power and responsibility in the AMS and a major university department. The AMS and Notices bear responsibility for amplifying views that fly in the face of research-based practices and that falsely equate evidence-based approaches to teaching and professional practice with the blacklisting of people based on political ideology, all in direct contradiction of the AMS’s stated commitment to diversity. AMS’s own diversity statement claims, “The American Mathematical Society is committed to promoting and facilitating equity, diversity and inclusion throughout the mathematical sciences... We reaffirm the pledge in the AMS Mission Statement to ‘advance the status of the profession of mathematics, encouraging and facilitating full partici.pation of all individuals,’ and urge all members to conduct their professional activities with this goal in mind.” While merely publishing Dr. Thompson’s letter demonstrates the AMS’s lack of commitment to this statement, the fact that it was written by and credited to an officer of the AMS raises even more serious questions about the statement’s sincerity. We strongly disagree with the sentiments and arguments in Dr. Thompson’s editorial, and we hope that the AMS will reconsider the way that it uses its power and position in the mathematics communities in these kinds of discus.sions. However, we primarily write this letter to our fellow mathematicians and students of all kinds who might have wondered if inclusion work is valued in our community. We want students and faculty, especially those with multiple identities that are minoritized in mathematics, to know that many mathematicians see this inclusion work as integral to our community and identity. Signed, Aaron Kaestner, North Park University Aaron Weinberg, Ithaca College Abba Gumel, Arizona State University Abeer Hasan, Humboldt State University Adam Avilez, Mesa Community College Adam Castillo, Florida International University Aditya P. Adiredja, The University of Arizona Adriana Salerno, Bates College Ahsan Chowdhury, Virginia Tech Aida Alibek, University of Illinois at Chicago Aisha Mechery, Bryn Mawr College Ajeet Gary, New York University Alejandra Rinc Hidalgo, ICTP Alexander Diaz-Lopez, Villanova University Alexander Halperin, Salisbury University Alexander Hoover, Assistant Professor, University of Akron Alexander Rasmussen, Yale University Alexander S. Moore, Virginia Tech Alexandra Newlon, Colgate University Alexis Byers, Youngstown State University Alice Mark, Vanderbilt University Alice Nadeau, Cornell University Alicia Prieto Langarica, Youngstown State University Alison Lynch, California State University, Monterey Bay Alison Marr, Southwestern University Alissa Crans, Loyola Marymount University Aliza Steurer, Dominican University Allison Henrich, Seattle University Amanda Hattaway, Wentworth Institute of Technology Amanda Knecht, Villanova University Amanda Ruiz, University of San Diego Amber Rosin, Cal Poly Pomona Amber Verser, Bowling Green State University Ami Radunskaya, Pomona College, Claremont Amie Wilkinson, University of Chicago Amy Beth Prager, NCWIT Amy Ellis, University of Georgia Amy Ksir, United States Naval Academy Amy Parrott, University of Wisconsin Oshkosh Amy Velchoff, Texas State University Amy Wehe, Fitchburg State University Amzi Jeffs, University of Washington graduate program Ana Caraiani, Imperial College London Ana Rita Pires, University of Edinburgh Ander Erickson, University of Washington Tacoma Andrea Arauza Rivera, California State University, East Bay Andrea Heald, University of Washington Andrea Young, Ripon College Andres Mejia, University of Pennsylvania Andrés R. Vindas Meléndez, University of Kentucky Andrew Bernoff, Harvey Mudd College Andrew Cooper, University of Pennsylvania Andrew D. Jones, Jr., Florida A&M University Andrew Schaffner, Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo Angie Hodge, Northern Arizona University Anil Venkatesh, Adelphi University Anila Yadavalli, University of Minnesota Anita O'Mellan, Youngstown State University Ann Clifton, Cedar Crest College Anna Haensch, Duquesne University Anne Catlla, Wofford College Anne M. Ho, University of Tennessee Anschel Schaffer-Cohen, University of Pennsylvania Anthony Bonato, Ryerson University Anton Dochtermann, Texas State University Anurag Katyal, Palm Beach State College Aram Dermenjian, York University Areeba Ikram, Colorado School of Mines Aris Winger, Georgia Gwinnett College Asamoah Nkwanta, Morgan State University Ashlee Kalauli, University of California, Santa Barbara Audrey Malagon, Virginia Wesleyan University Axel Brandt, Northern Kentucky University Bahar Acu, Northwestern University Barbara Fantechi, Sissa, Trieste, Italy Belin Tsinnajinnie, Santa Fe Community College Ben Blum-Smith, The New School Ben Ford, Sonoma State University Benjamin Braun, University of Kentucky Benjamin Coté, Western Oregon University Benjamin Dickman, The Hewitt School (NY) Benjamin Gaines, Iona College Benjamin Levitt, Tri-Institutional MD-PhD Program Berit Givens, Cal Poly Pomona Bianca Viray, University of Washington Bill Rosenthal, CUNY (retired) Blake Farman, Lafayette College Bradley Elliott, Emory University Brandy S Wiegers, Central Washington University Breeanne Swart, The Citadel Bret Benesh, College of Saint Benedict and Saint John's University Brian Birgen, Wartburg College Brian L. Walter, The Evergreen State College Brian Lindaman, California State University, Chico Brian P. Katz, Smith College Brittany Stephenson, Lewis University Brittney Miller, Coe College Brooke Shipley, University of Illinois at Chicago Bruce Reznick, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Bruce Yoshiwara, Los Angeles Pierce College, retired Caglar Uyanik, Yale University Caitlin Beecham, Georgia Institute of Technology Calvin Jongsma, Dordt University Cameron Byerley, University of Georgia Cameron D Hill, Wesleyan University Carla Cederbaum, University of Tingen, Germany Carmen Caprau, California State University, Fresno Carol Schumacher, Kenyon College Carolyn M. James, University of Portland Carrie Diaz Eaton, Bates College Carrie Muir, Whatcom Community College Carter Johnson, University of California, Davis Casey Monday, University of Cincinnati Casey Warmbrand, Arizona State University Catherine Buell, Fitchburg State University Cathery Yeh, Chapman University Chad Topaz, Williams College Chanda Prescod-Weinstein, University of New Hampshire Charles D. Camp, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo Cheryl Eames, Southern Illinois University Edwardsville Cheryl Grood, Swarthmore College Chiheon Kim, Kakao Brain Chloe Urbanski Wawrzyniak, Rutgers University Chris Danforth, University of Vermont Chris Rasmussen, San Diego State University Christian Jäh, Georg-August Universität Gtingen Christina Edholm, Scripps College Christina Eubanks-Turner, Loyola Marymount University Christine von Renesse, Westfield State University Christopher Duffy, University of Saskatchewan Christopher Hanusa, Queens College, CUNY Christopher Marcotte, University of Exeter Christopher Miles, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences (NYU) Christopher Natoli, CUNY Christopher Perez, University of Illinois at Chicago Christopher R. Lee, University of Portland Christopher Yakes, Salem State University Cihan Can, Florida State University Clara Buck, Iowa State University Claudio Gez-Gonzáles, University of Chicago Cody L. Patterson, Texas State University Concha Gomez, Diablo Valley College Corrine Yap, Rutgers University Cory Colbert, Washington and Lee University Courtney R. Gibbons, Hamilton College Cristina Runnalls, Cal Poly Pomona Crystal Clough, University of Cincinnati Cvetelina Hill, Georgia Institute of Technology Cynthia Flores, California State University Channel Islands Cynthia Wyels, California State University Channel Islands Dagan Karp, Harvey Mudd College Dana C. Ernst, Northern Arizona University Daniel Freeman, St Louis University Daniel Groves, University of Illinois at Chicago Daniel Pollack, University of Washington Daniel Reinholz, San Diego State University Danielle Champney, Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo Danny Bernard Martin, University of Illinois at Chicago Dany Waller, Morehead State University Darren Glass, Gettysburg College Dave Jensen, University of Kentucky Dave Kung, St. Mary's College of Maryland David Brown, Ithaca College David Clark, GVSU David desJardins, MIT Corporation David Dynerman, Chan-Zuckerberg Biohub David Freund, Harvard University David Futer, Temple University David Murrugarra, University of Kentucky David Neel, Seattle University David Plaxco, Clayton State University Debra K. Borkovitz, Boston University Derek L. Smith, N/A Derrick Wigglesworth, University of Arkansas Devlin Mallory, University of Michigan Diana Davis, Swarthmore College Diana Thomas, United States Military Academy Diane Henderson, Penn State University Diego A. Robayo Bargans, Universidad de Los Andes Dominic Canzanese, Villanova University Doug Burkholder, Lenoir-Rhyne University Douglas Norton, Villanova University Drew Lewis, University of South Alabama Dustin Ross, San Francisco State University Dylan Poulsen, Washington College Edgar Fuller, Florida International University Eduardo Duez, University of Texas at San Antonio Edward Welsh, Westfield State University Eileen Fernandez, Montclair State University Eileen Melville, Clemson University Eileen Murray, Montclair State University Elaine Lande, University of Michigan Elisa Celis, Yale University Eliza Gallagher, Clemson University Elizabeth Beer, IDA/Center for Computing Sciences Elizabeth Gross, University of Hawai’i at Manoa Elizabeth Kersey, University of Northern Colorado Elizabeth Munch, Michigan State University Elizabeth Niese, Marshall University Elizabeth Thoren, Pepperdine University Ellen Gasparovic, Union College Ellen Goldstein, Boston College Ellen Veomett, Saint Mary's College of California Emek Kose, St. Mary’s College of Maryland Emerald Stacy, Washington College Emilie Hancock, Central Washington University Emilie Wiesner, Ithaca College Emily Braley, Harvard University Emily Cilli-Turner, University of La Verne Emily Clader, San Francisco State University Emily Olson, Millikin University Emily Riehl, Johns Hopkins University Emily Winn, Brown University Emma Gargroetzi, Stanford University Eric "Rico" Gutstein, University of Illinois at Chicago Eric Eager, Pro Football Focus Eric Kuennen, University of Wisconsin Oshkosh Erica R. Miller, Virginia Commonwealth University Erica Shannon, Pierce College Erika Roldan, The Ohio State University Erin Angelini, University of Washington Erin Meger, Ryerson University Erin R. Moss, Millersville University (PA) Erin Wolf Chambers, Saint Louis University Ernest Guico, University of Georgia Ernesto D. Calleros, UC San Diego & San Diego State University Everett Howe, AMS life member, currently unaffiliated F. Patricia Medina, Yeshiva University Fany Salazar, University of Arizona Federico Ardila, San Francisco State University Feng Zhu, University of Michigan Francis Su, Harvey Mudd College Frank A. Farris, Santa Clara University Frederick Peck, University of Montana Fumiko Futamura, Southwestern University Gabriel Dorfsman-Hopkins, UC Berkeley Gabriel Sosa Castillo, Colgate University Gabriela Hamerlinck, University of Florida Gage Martin, Boston College Gail Tang, University of La Verne Geillan Aly, University of Hartford Geoffrey Buhl, California State University Channel Islands George Avery, AHDI Giovanny Marquez, University of California, Santa Cruz Gloria Mari Beffa, University of Wisconsin-Madison Gulden Karakok, University of Northern Colorado Hanna Bennett, University of Michigan Hannah Highlander, University of Portland Hassan Rafique, The University of Iowa Hayley Milbourne, University of San Diego Heather Zinn Brooks, UCLA Henry Adams, Colorado State University Hillary Einziger, University of Cincinnati Holly Swisher, Oregon State University Hong Qin, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Ihsan Topaloglu, Virginia Commonwealth University Iian Smythe, Rutgers University Immanuel Williams, California Polytechnic State University Inbar Klang, Columbia University Irma Cruz-White, Chipola College Isaac Sundberg, Bryn Mawr College J. Christopher Tweddle, Governors State University J. Toufic Chahin, University of Texas Jaclyn Anderson, University of Nebraska-Omaha Jaco Stroebel, University of Pretoria Jacqueline A Hall, Longwood University (Ret) Jacqueline Coomes, Eastern Washington University Jacqueline Jensen-Vallin, Lamar University James Álvarez, The University of Texas at Arlington James Conway, UC Berkeley James Sheldon, University of Arizona Jan Cameron, Vassar College Janice Sklensky, Wheaton College Janine Wittwer, Westminster College (UT) Japheth Wood, Bard College Jared Holshouser, University of South Alabama Jasmine Foo, University of Minnesota Jason E. Miller, California State University Channel Islands Jasper Weinburd, Harvey Mudd College Jean-Philippe Chassé, Université de Montréal Jeff Graham, Susquehanna University Jeffrey X. Watt, Indiana U - Purdue U Indianapolis (IUPUI) Jen-Mei Chang, California State University, Long Beach Jennifer A. Wolfe, The University of Arizona Jennifer Bowen, The College of Wooster Jennifer Danae Berg, Fitchburg State University Jennifer Kenkel, University of Kentucky Jennifer Schaefer, Dickinson College Jennifer V. Jones, Fairleigh Dickinson University Jenny Switkes, Cal Poly Pomona Jeremy F Alm, Lamar University Jeremy F. Strayer, Middle Tennessee State University Jess Ellis Hagman, Colorado State University Jessalyn Bolkema, Harvey Mudd College Jessica Deshler, West Virginia University Jessica M. Libertini, Virginia Military Institute Jessie Oehrlein, Columbia University Jianzhong Su, University of Texas at Arlington Jieun Seong, Georgia Institute of Technology Jill Bigley Dunham, Chapman University Jill Shahverdian, Quinnipiac University Jim Hartman, The College of Wooster Jo Hardin, Pomona College Joanna Wares, University of Richmond Jodi McWhirter, Washington University in St. Louis Joe Moeller, University of California, Riverside Johanna Franklin, Hofstra University John F. Gibson, University of New Hampshire John Golden, Grand Valley State University John H. Johnson Jr., The Ohio State University John Meier, Lafayette College John Nardini, NC State University John Rock, Cal Poly Pomona John Ross, Southwestern University John Zobitz, Augsburg University Johnny Guzman, Brown University Jonas D'Andrea, Westminster College (UT) Jonathan Alcaraz, UC Riverside Jonathan Beardsley, Georgia Institute of Technology Jonathan Dunbar, St. Norbert College Jonathan J. White, Coe College Jonathan K. Hodge, Grand Valley State University Jordan Kostiuk, Brown University Joseph E. Hibdon, Jr., Northeastern Illinois University Josh Laison, Willamette University Joshua Batson, Chan Zuckerberg Biohub Joshua Cooper, University of South Carolina Joshua Holden, Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology Joshua Mundinger, University of Chicago Joshua Wiscons, California State University, Sacramento Juan B. Gutierrez, University of Texas at San Antonio Juan Villeta-Garcia, Emory University Juanita Pinz-Caicedo, MPIM/ University of Notre Dame Julia Webster, University of North Carolina Asheville Julian F Fleron, Westfield State University Julianne Vega, University of Kentucky Julie Rana, Lawrence University Julie Seitz, Youngstown State University Julie Theoret, Northern Vermont University Julien Paupert, Arizona State University Justin Dong, Brown University Justin Lanier, Georgia Institute of Technology Justin R. Peters, Iowa State University Justin Troyka, York University K G Valente, Colgate University Kameryn Williams, University of Hawai'i at M.noa Kamuela Yong, University of Hawaii - West Oahu Karen Clark, The College of New Jersey Karen Thomas, Edgewood College Karoline Pershell, Association for Women in Mathematics Kate Owens, College of Charleston Kate Poirier, City University of New York - NYCCT Katherine Kinnaird, Smith College Kathi Crow, Salem State University Kathryn Leonard, Occidental College Kathryn Link, University of Utah Kathryn Van Etten, University of Nebraska-Lincoln Katie Ansaldi, Wabash College Katrin Wehrheim, UC Berkeley Katrina Morgan, Northwestern University Katrina Piatek-Jimenez, Central Michigan University Kay Kirkpatrick, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Kayden Mimmack, University of California, Davis Kayla Gibson, University of Iowa Keith M Jones, SUNY Oneonta Keivan Hassani Monfared, AMS member Kelly Black, University of Georgia Kelly Bubp, Ohio University Kelly MacArthur, University of Utah Kenan .nce, Westminster College (UT) Kimberly A. Roth, Juniata College Kisun Lee, Georgia Tech Klaus Volpert, Villanova University Komal Agrawal, University of Georgia Krista Bresock, West Virginia University Kristin Kuter, Saint Mary's College (IN) Ksenija Simic-Muller, Pacific Lutheran University Kyle Besing, Kentucky Wesleyan College Kyle Ferendo, Brown University Kyle Petersen, DePaul University Lateefah Id-Deen, Kennesaw State University Laura Lopez Cruz, CUNY Graduate Center Lee Worden, UCSF Leonardo Javier Rodriguez Gutierrez, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Lewis Sloter, College of Central Florida Lily Khadjavi, Loyola Marymount University Lindsey Bosko-Dunbar, St Norbert College Lior Pachter, California Institute of Technology Lisa Bromberg, Springfield College Lisa DeMeyer, Central Michigan University Lisa Marano, West Chester University Lola Thompson, Oberlin College Lori Ziegelmeier, Macalester College Lorraine Franco, Gwinnett County Public Schools Lou Matthews, UrbanTeachers Luiza Coelho, California Institute of Technology M. Drew LaMar, William & Mary Maarten McKubre-Jordens, University of Canterbury Maddie Schroth-Glanz, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo Madeline Brandt, University of California, Berkeley Maeve L. McCarthy, Murray State University Maia Averett, Mills College Makeda Brome, Math Educator Malena Espanol, Arizona State University Marcella Gomez, University of California, Santa Cruz Marco V. Martinez, North Central College Margaret Morrow, SUNY Plattsburgh Maria Basterra, University of New Hampshire María Cumplido, Heriot-Watt University Maria G Martinez, Arizona State University Mariah Birgen, Wartburg College Marianne Korten, Kansas State University Marie Snipes, Kenyon College Mario Banuelos, California State University, Fresno Marissa Kawehi Loving, Georgia Tech Mark Beering, El Sausal Middle School Mark Branson, Stevenson University Mark Daniel Ward, Purdue University Mark W. Ellis, CSU Fullerton Marko Budisic, Clarkson University Marla Williams, University of Nebraska Marta Civil, University of Arizona Martha Byrne, Sonoma State University Martha Precup, Washington University in St. Louis Martha Shott, Sonoma State University Mary D. Shepherd, Northwest Missouri State University Mary E. Pilgrim, San Diego State University Mary K. Arthur, Washington State University Mary K. Porter, Saint Mary's College (IN) Matilde Lalin, University of Montreal, Canada Matilde Marcolli, Caltech, University of Toronto, and Perimeter Institute Matt Davis, Muskingum University Matthew Ando, University of Illinois Matthew Cathey, Wofford College Matthew Dahlgren, University of Michigan Matthew G. Jones, California State University Dominguez Hills Matthew K Voigt, University of California San Diego Matthew Salomone, Bridgewater State University Matthias Beck, San Francisco State University Matthias Kawski, Arizona State University Max Lahn, University of Michigan Megan Breit-Goodwin, Anoka-Ramsey Community College Megan Cream, Lehigh University Megan E. Sawyer, Southern New Hampshire University Megan Selbach-Allen, Stanford University Melanie Brown, Champlain College Melanie Pivarski, Roosevelt University Melissa Sutherland, SUNY Geneseo Meredith L. Greer, Bates College Meredith Sargent, University of Arkansas Michaël Ayoul, École Polytechnique Michael Dougherty, Colby College Michael J. Barany, University of Edinburgh Michael Lacey, Georgia Institute of Technology Michael Robert, University of the Sciences, Philadelphia Michael Ruddy, Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences Michael S. Gagliardo, California Lutheran University Michael T. Schultz, Utah State University Michael Vischak, The Kinkaid School Michael Wills, Layton Christian Academy Michelle Manes, University of Hawaii at Manoa Michelle Snider, IDA/Center for Computing Sciences Michole Washington, University of Michigan Mikael Vejdemo-Johansson, CUNY College of Staten Island / CUNY Graduate Center Mikahl Banwarth-Kuhn, UC Merced Mike Tait, Villanova University Milos Savic, University of Oklahoma Mindy Capaldi, Valparaiso University Mitch Haeuser, Iowa State University Mitchel T. Keller, Morningside College Moira McDermott, Syracuse University Mollee Shultz, University of Michigan Monica L. Miles, Cornell University Monica VanDieren, Robert Morris University Moshe Cohen, State University of New York at New Paltz Natalia García-Colín, Sociedad Matemática Mexicana Natalie Downey, University of Colorado Natalie Sheils, UnitedHealth Group Nate Brown, Penn State University Nathan Ryan, Bucknell University Nathan Warnberg, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse Neha Gupta, Georgia Tech Nicholas Battista, The College of New Jersey Nicholas Fortune, Western Kentucky University Nickolas A Castro, University of Arkansas Nicole Eikmeier, Grinnell College Nicole Infante, West Virginia University Nicole M. Joseph, Vanderbilt University Nina Fefferman, University of Tennessee Nina White, University of Michigan Nitsa Movshovitz-Hadar, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology Noah Weiss, University of Wisconsin Eau Claire Noelle Beckman, Utah State University Olivia Borghi, University of Washington Omayra Ortega, Sonoma State University Oscar Vega, California State University, Fresno Paige Helms, University of Washington Pamela E. Harris, Williams College Parker Glynn-Adey, University of Toronto Mississauga Patrick Bahls, University of North Carolina, Asheville Paul Salomon, John Burroughs School Perla Myers, University of San Diego Peter Chi, Villanova University Peter Kagey, University of Southern California Peter Muller, Villanova University Philip Hotchkiss, Westfield State University Phong Le, Goucher College Pierre Albin, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Piper H Prateek Kunwar, University of Hawai'i at M.noa Priscilla Bremser, Middlebury College Priya V. Prasad, University of Texas at San Antonio Quinn A. Morris, Appalachian State University Rachel Skipper, The Ohio State University Rachel Vale, Portland State University Rachel Weir, Allegheny College Rachelle DeCoste, Wheaton College (MA) Rafael Monteiro, Advanced Institute for Materials Research / Matham-Oil, Japan Ralph Pantozzi, Kent Place School Rami Grossberg, Carnegie Mellon University Ramin Takloo-Bighash, University of Illinois at Chicago Ranjan Rohatgi, Saint Mary's College Rann Bar-On, Duke University Rebecca Durst, Brown University Rebecca Garcia, Sam Houston State University Rebecca Gasper, Creighton University Rebecca R.G., George Mason University Rebecca Santorella, Brown University Rebecca Segal, Virginia Commonwealth University Rebecca Swanson, Colorado School of Mines Renzo Cavalieri, Colorado State University Ricardo Cortez, Tulane University Ricela Feliciano-Semidei, Northern Illinois University Richard Laugesen, University of Illinois Richard McGehee, University of Minnesota Rob Oakley, Temple University Robert Campbell, College of St. Benedict and St. John's University Robert Davis, Colgate University Robert Kelvey, The College of Wooster Robert Lemke Oliver, Tufts University Robert Smith?, The University of Ottawa Robert T Jantzen, Villanova University Robert W. Vallin, Lamar University Roberto Soto, California State University, Fullerton Robin T. Wilson, Cal Poly Pomona Rochelle Gutierrez, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Rodrigo Gutierrez, University of Arizona Rodrigo Trevi, University of Maryland, College Park Rosalie Bélanger-Rioux, McGill University Rosalyn LaPier, Environmental Studies, University of Montana Rose Uscanga, Oklahoma State University Russell Brown, University of Kentucky Sally Collins, Georgia Institute of Technology Sam Cook, Boston University Sam Fleischer, UC Davis Samuel Iselin, Georgia Institute of Technology Sandra Laursen, University of Colorado Boulder Sang-il Oum, Institute for Basic Science / KAIST Sara L. Uckelman, Durham University Sarah A. Nelson, Lenoir-Rhyne University Sarah Bryant, Dickinson College Sarah Griffith, Brown University Sarah K. Salmon, University of Colorado Boulder Sarah Milstein, University of Minnesota Sarah Wright, Fitchburg State University Sasha Townsend, Tulsa Community College Sat Gupta, University of North Carolina - Greensboro Scott Beaver, Western Oregon University Sean Raleigh, Westminster College (UT) Sean Sather-Wagstaff, Clemson University Selenne Baelos, Cal State University Channel Islands Semra Kilic-Bahi, Colby-Sawyer College Shahriar Shahriari, Pomona College Sharona Krinsky, California State University Los Angeles Shelby M. Scott, University of Tennessee, Knoxville Simon Kelly, Santa Clara University Soledad Villar, New York University Sonja Petrovic, Illinois Institute of Technology Spencer Bagley, Westminster College (UT) Spencer Hamblen, McDaniel College Stacy Musgrave, Cal Poly Pomona Stan Yoshinobu, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo Stefanie D. Livers, Missouri State University Stephan Sturm, Worcester Polytechnic Institute Stephanie Baker, The University of Texas at Austin Stephanie Chang, UC Davis Stephanie Garofalo, Georgia State University Stephanie M. Kolitsch, University of Tennessee at Martin Stephanie Salomone, University of Portland Steven Clontz, University of South Alabama Steven Greenstein, Montclair State University Stuart Boersma, Central Washington University Sue VanHattum, Contra Costa College Susan D'Agostino, Johns Hopkins University Susan Goldstine, St. Mary’s College of Maryland Susan Hollingsworth, Edgewood College Susan J. Sierra, University of Edinburgh Suzanne Lynch Boyd, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee Suzanne Sindi, University of California, Merced Sylvain Lavau, IMJ-PRG, Université Paris Diderot Talia Fern, UNC Greensboro Tarik Aougab, Haverford College Taro Shima, City College of New York Taylor E. Martin, Sam Houston State University Taylor Short, Grand Valley State University Teri Murphy, University of Cincinnati Terrence Blackman, Medgar Evers College, CUNY Therese Shelton, Southwestern University (TX) Theron J Hitchman, University of Northern Iowa Thomas Dick, Oregon State University Thomas Goodwillie, Brown University Tim Hsu, San Jose State University Tim McEldowney, West Virginia University Timothy E. Goldberg, Lenoir-Rhyne University Timothy Feeman, Villanova University Timothy Ferdinands, Alfred University Timothy J. Huber, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley Tony Samuel, University of Birmingham, UK Topaz Wiscons, California State University, Sacramento Travis Morrison, University of Waterloo Travis Shrontz, Georgia Tech Tyler Chen, University of Washington Valerie Peterson, University of Portland Vanessa Aguirre, San Francisco State University Vanessa Rivera-Quines, No affiliation Vicki-Lynn Holmes, Hope College Victor Ocasio-Gonzalez, University of Puerto Rico-RUM Victor Piercey, Ferris State University Vikram Kamat, Villanova University Virgil U Pierce, University of Northern Colorado Vitaly Lorman, University of Rochester Volker Ecke, Westfield State University Wendy M. Smith, University of Nebraska Whitney George, University of Wisconsin - La Crosse Widodo Samyono, Jarvis Christian College William Malone, Temecula Valley Unified School District William Worden, Rice University Xander Faber, IDA/Center for Computing Sciences Xiao Xiao, Utica College Ximena Catepillan, Millersville University of Pennsylvania Yan Zhuang, Davidson College Yang Xiao, Brown University Yemeen Ayub, George Mason University Yousuf George, Nazareth College Yuri Santos Rego, OvG University Magdeburg Ziva Myer, Duke University Letter to the Editor To the American Mathematical Society: We write with grave concerns about recent attempts to intimidate a voice within our mathematical com.munity. Abigail Thompson published an opinion piece in the December issue of the Notices of the American Mathematical Society (https://www.ams.org/journals /notices/201911/rnoti-p1778.pdf). She explained her support for efforts within our community to fur.ther diversity, and then described her concerns with the rigid rubrics (https://ofew.berkeley.edu/sites /default/files/rubric_to_assess_candidate_ contributions_to_diversity_equity_and_ inclusion.pdf) used to evaluate diversity statements in the hiring processes of the University of California system. The reaction to the article has been swift and vehement. An article posted at the site QSIDE (https://qside institute.org/2019/11/19/diversity-statements -in-hiring-the-american-mathematical-society -and-uc-davis) urges faculty to direct their students not to attend the University of California-Davis, where Prof. Thompson is chair of the math department. It recom.mends contacting the university to question whether Prof. Thompson is fit to be chair. And it recommends refusing to do work for the Notices of the American Mathematical Society for allowing this piece to be published. Regardless of where anyone stands on the issue of whether diversity statements are a fair or effective means to further diversity aims, we should agree that this attempt to silence opinions is damaging to the profession. This is a direct attempt to destroy Thompson’s career and to punish her department. It is an attempt to intimidate the AMS into publishing only articles that hew to a very specific point of view. If we allow ourselves to be intimidated into avoiding discussion of how best to achieve diversity, we undermine our attempts to achieve it. We the undersigned urge the American Mathematical Society to stand by the principle that important issues should be openly discussed in a respectful manner, and to make a clear statement that bullying and intimidation have no place in our community. Signed, Scott Aaronson, University of Texas at Austin Vyacheslav M. Abramov, retired Dan Abramovich, Brown University Colin Adams, Williams College Alejandro Adem, University of British Columbia Karim Adiprasito, U Copenhagen and Hebrew U Jerusalem Siddharth Agarwal, KU Leuven Adebisi Agboola, UC Santa Barbara Arseniy Akopyan, IST Austria Roger L. Albin, University of Michigan Ian Alevy, University of Rochester Maria Angeles Alfonseca Cubero, North Dakota State University Kenneth S. Alexander, U. Of Southern California Bruce Allardice, Professor of History Daniel Allcock, U.T. Austin M. D. Allen, University of Wisconsin-Fox Valley Ryan Alweiss, Princeton University Ekaterina Amerik, Université Paris-Sud Vrege Amirkhanian, ATU retired David Anderson, Ohio State University George E. Andrews, Pennsylvania State University Todd Arbogast, University of Texas at Austin Scott Armstrong, Courant Institute, New York University Richard Arratia, University of Southern California James Arthur, University Professor, University of Toronto, Past President of American Mathematical Society, 2005-2007 Alan Astro, Trinity University David Auckly, Professor Kansas State University, Director Indigenous Math Circle Communities Rubén A. Martínez Avenda, Instituto Tecnolico Automo de México Pedro Fortuny Ayuso, University of Oviedo, Spain Blanca Ayuso de Dios, Universita Milano-Bicocca Eric Babson, UC Davis Pavel Bacherikov, University of California at Berkeley David Bachman, Pitzer College Hyungryul Baik, KAIST Matt Bainbridge, Indiana University Viviane Baladi, CNRS, Paris Scott Baldridge, Louisiana State University John Baldwin, Boston College Tatiana Bandman, Bar-Ilan University, retired Jessica Banks, University of Liverpool Anton Baranov, Saint Petersburg State University Rodica Barbu, Ohio State University Dror Bar-Natan, University of Toronto Alexander Barvinok, University of Michigan Paul Baumann, Professor of Microbiology (Emeritus), UC Davis John Baxter, Professor Emeritus, University of Minnesota Yuri Bazlov, University of Manchester, UK William Beckner, The University of Texas at Austin Richard Bedient, Hamilton College Paul R. Beezley, Jacksonville State University Alexander Beilinson, University of Chicago Jennifer Beineke, Western New England University Ioan Bejenaru, University of California San Diego Taylor Belcher, SC Governor’s School For Science and Mathematics Gregory Benford, UC Irvine Arkady Berenstein, University of Oregon Julien Berestycki, University of Oxford Professor Alexander Berkovich, Math Dept. UF John Berman, UT Austin Mladen Bestvina, University of Utah Joseph A. Biello, University of California, Davis Stephen Bigelow, UCSB Erica Billingsley, Western Kentucky University Yuri Bilu, University of Bordeaux Ilia Binder, University of Toronto Joan Birman, Professor Emeritus, Barnard College, Columbia University Michael Biro, University of Connecticut Julie Blackwood, Williams College Philip Blanco, Grossmont College Ivan Blank, Kansas State University Kevin Blankinship, Brigham Young University Robin Blankenship, Morehead State University Florin Boca, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Eric Bondi, UCDavis alumni Richard Borcherds, U.C. Berkeley Nigel Boston, University of Wisconsin Antoine Bourget Lewis Bowen, University of Texas at Austin Philip L. Bowers, Florida State University Latham Boyle, Perimeter Institute David Bradshaw, University of Kentucky Jason Bramburger, University of Victoria Michael Bramley, student member of the Royal Statistical Society Alex Branton Jonathan Breuer, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Martin R Bridson, University of Oxford Andrea Brini, University of Sheffield Mark Brittenham, University of Nebraska John T. Broom, Nowich University Bill Browder, Professor Emeritus, Princeton University Frank Brown, UCSB Rachel Fulton Brown, The University of Chicago (History) Eric Brussel, California Polytechnic State University Leonard Bruton, FRSC, FIEEE, P.Eng., Emeritus Professor, University of Calgary, Canada Robert Bryant, Duke University Daoud Bshouty, Dept of Maths,Technion, Israel Robert B. Burckel, emeritus professor, Kansas State University Alex Buchel, Professor, Western University Leonid Bunimovich, Georgia Tech Efstathia Bura, TU Wien Robert Busch Adam Buskirk, North Dakota State University Dani Byrd, University of Southern California Larry Cahill, Professor, UC Irvine Jack Calcut, Oberlin College Andrei Caldararu, Professor of Mathematics, University of Wisconsin-Madison Justin Campbell, Caltech John Carlsson, USC Gunnar Carlsson, Stanford University Erik Carlsson, U.C. Davis Matt Carter, Williams College Bill Casselman, UBC Eduardo Cattani, University of Massachusetts Amherst Gustavo Emilio Cepparo, The University of Texas at Austin Abhijit Champanerkar, CUNY Vyjayanthi Chari, University of California, Riverside R. Douglas Chatham, Morehead State University Jeff Cheeger, Courant institute Ivan Cheltsov, University of Edinburgh Thomas Chen, UT Austin Vladimir Chernov, Dartmouth College Alexey Cheskidov, University of Illinois at Chicago Dobrinka Chiekova, The College of New Jersey Laura Chihara, Carleton College Alexandre Chorin, Mathematics, UC Berkeley Vasileios Chousionis, University of Connecticut Katie C Christensen, Furman University David Cimasoni, University of Geneva Mirela Ciperiani, University of Texas at Austin Darin Clark, UWO Stephen L. Clark, Missouri S&T Justin Clarke, Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Ethics, Ottawa University Sally Cockburn, Hamilton College Ionut Ciocan-Fontanine, Mathematics, University of Minnesota Daniel C. Cohen, Louisiana State University Jonathan Cohen, Emeritus, DePaul University Pierre Colmez, CNRS, France Jim Conant, AoPS Academy James Conway, UC Berkeley Daryl Cooper, UCSB Octav Cornea, University of Montreal Carl C Cowen, Prof. of Mathematics, IUPUI David A. Cox, emeritus, Amherst College Phebe Cramer, Williams College Michael Cranston, University of California, Irvine Paul F. Crawford, California University of Pennsylvania Thomas Crawford, Swarthmore College Danny Crytser, St Lawrence University Nicholas Castillo, PhD Student OSU Mathematics Department Milica Cudina, The University of Texas at Austin Marc Culler, University of Illinois at Chicago John Cullinan, Bard College Michael Cwikel, Professor Emeritus, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology Marius Dadarlat, Purdue University John P. D'Angelo, University of Illinois Mimi Dai, University of Illinois at Chicago Jeffrey Danciger, UT Austin Donatella Danielli, Purdue University Panagiota Daskalopoulos, Columbia University Donald M. Davis, Lehigh University Chandler Davis, University of Toronto Michael Davis, Ohio State University Rafael de la Llave, Georgia Inst. of Technology Jesus A. De Loera, UC Davis RIchard De Veaux, Williams College Percy Deift, NYU Charles Delman, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Eastern Illinois University Andrzej Derdzinski, The Ohio State University Satyan Devadoss, Fletcher Jones Professor of Applied Mathematics, University of San Diego Robert L. Devaney, Boston University Lev Deych, Physics Department, Queens College of CUNY Moshe Dinowitz, CUNY Graduate Center Anna Dobritsa, OSU Robert G. Donnelly, Murray State University David R Dorman, Middlebury College Vladimir Dotsenko, Professor, University of Strasbourg Edward R. Dougherty, Texas A&M University Jon Doyle, NCSU Peter Doyle Bogdan Doytchinov, Elizabethtown College John Drew, Williams Liberty Vladimir Drinfeld, University of Chicago William Dunbar, Bard College at Simon's Rock David Duncan, James Madison University Molly Dunkum, Western Kentucky University Susan Dunn, Williams College Gerald Dworkin, Distinguished Professor of Philosophy emeritus, UC Davis Andrew Dykstra, Hamilton College Anton Dzhamay, University of Northern Colorado Joan Edwards, Professor of Biology, Williams College Richard Ehrenborg, University of Kentucky Dennis Eichhorn, UC Irvine William Eichinger, University of Iowa David Eisenbud, U.C. Berkeley Mohamed Elhamdadi, USF Yakov Eliashberg, Stanford University Michael Entov, Technion Inna Entova, Ben Gurion University Adam Epstein, University of Warwick Gayla Epure Burak Erdogan, University of Illinois Alexandre Eremenko, professor, Purdue University Claus Ernst, Western Kentucky University Alex Eskin, University of Chicago Pavel Etingof, MIT Jon Eugster, University of Edinburgh Lawrence C Evans, UC Berkeley David E Evans, Cardiff University Michael Falk, Northern Arizona University Sohail Farhangi, The Ohio State University Emmanuel Farjoun, Hebrew University Jerusalem David Farris, National Centre for Biological Science, Bangalore Misha Feigin, University of Glasgow Ohad Noy Feldheim, the Hebrew University of Jersualem, Israel Kasun Fernando, University of Toronto Yuval Filmus, Technion Stas Filshtinskiy, Bachelor of Applied Mathematics, Certified Information Security System Professional Gregory Fink, Michigan State University Michael Finkelberg, Department of Mathematics, National Research University Higher School of Economics, Moscow, Russia Vladimir Finkelshtein, University of Gtingen Peter Finley Ronald Fintushel, Michigan State University (Emeritus) Patrick Fitzsimmons, UC San Diego Yuval Flicker, The Ohio State University Joel Foisy, SUNY Potsdam Martin Frankland, University of Regina Robert Franzosa, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Maine Michael Freedman, Microsoft and UCSB math Daniel Freeman, St Louis University David Freund, Harvard University Eric M. Friedlander, University of Southern California Susan Friedlander, USC Charles Frohman, University of Iowa Dmitry Fuchs, professor emeritus at University of California, Davis Elena Fuchs, University of California, Davis Lenny Fukshansky, Claremont McKenna College Evgenia Fukshansky, former AMS member David Gabai, Princeton University Thomas Garrity, Williams College Pawel Gburzynski, University of Alberta William Geller, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis Edward George, University of Pennsylvania Fritz Gesztesy, Baylor University Ezra Getzler, Northwestern University Saeed Ghahramani, Western New England University Robert Ghrist, University of Pennsylvania Patrick Gilmer, Louisiana State University Harry J. Gindi, University of Edinburgh Victor Ginzburg, University of Chicago Viktor Ginzburg, University of California, Santa Cruz Eleftherios Gkioulekas, The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley James Glimm, Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, Stony Brook University Heide Gluesing-Luerssen, University of Kentucky Mark S. Gockenbach, Michigan Technological University Andrey Gogolev, Ohio State University Leo Goldmakher William Goldman, Professor, University of Maryland Larry Goldstein, University of Southern California Robert Gompf, The University of Texas at Austin Alexander Goncharov, Yale University Daniel Gonzalez, Florida State University & the University of Notre Dame Chaim Goodman-Strauss, University of Arkansas Carolyn Gordon, Dartmouth College Anton Gorodetski, University of California, Irvine Claudio Gorodski, University of São Paulo Prof. Dmitry Gourevitch, Weizmann Institute of Science Fernando Q. Gouvêa, Colby College Jonathan Graehl Noah Graham, Middlebury College Department of Physics Christopher Grant, Brigham Young University Andrew Granville, U of Montreal and University College London Josh Greene, Boston College Jacob Greenstein, UC Riverside J. Elisenda Grigsby, Boston College Darij Grinberg, Drexel University Misha Gromov, Courant Institute, NYU and IHES. France Niels Grbech-Jensen, UC Davis Benedict H Gross, UCSD Ilya Gruzberg, Professor, Ohio State University Bo Guan, Ohio State University Pavel Guerzhoy, University of Hawaii at Manoa David Gçay-Morris, Williams College Ori Gurel-Gurevich, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel Max Gurevich, Technion Robert Guy, UC Davis Ewain Gwynne, University of Cambridge George Hagedorn, Virginia Tech Emily Hamilton, California Polytechnic State University David Hansen, MPIM Bonn Evans Harrell, Georgia Institute of Technology Shelly Harvey, Rice University Deirdre Haskell, McMaster University Dominique Haughton, Bentley University Thomas F Hayes David Heddle, Christopher Newport University Raymond Heitmann, University of Texas at Austin Dennis A. Hejhal, University of Minnesota Harald Helfgott, University of Goettingen David Hemmer, Michigan Technological University David R. Henderson, Emeritus Professor of Economics, Naval Postgraduate School James Henle, Smith College Michael Henle, Emeritus, Oberlin College Samuel Herman, New College of Florida Hamid Hezari, UC Irvine Jairo Iván Pe Hidalgo, FSU Student Vladimir Hinich, University of Haifa Eriko Hironaka David Hoffman Jan Holly, Colby College Andrew Holt, Florida State College at Jacksonville Ko Honda, UCLA Anna-Lena Horlemann, St. Gallen, Switzerland Joey Horn Hugh Howards, Wake Forest University Joshua Howie, University of California, Davis Mark Hughes, Brigham Young University Paul Humphreys, University of Virginia John Hunter, UC Davis Mee Seong Im, National Academy of Sciences,United States Military Academy and Army Research Laboratory Alexander Ioffe, Professor Emeritus, Technion, Israel Nezam Iraniparast, Western Kentucky University Ingrid Irmer, ICM SUSTech Alan Isaac, American University Joshua Isralowitz, University at Albany (SUNY) James D Ivers, Eastern Michigan University Krishnamurthy Iyer Elham Izadi, UCSD Mathematics Ivan Izmestiev, TU Wien William Jaco, Oklahoma State University Adam Jacob, UC Davis Christina Jeffrey Shane Jensen Chad W Jessup Svetlana Jitomirskaya, UC Irvine William Johnston, Butler University David Joyce, Clark University Aaron Kaestner, North Park University Jeremy Kahn, Brown University Uwe Kaiser, Boise State University Effie Kalfagianni, Michigan State University Prof. Patanjali Kambhampati, Department of Chemistry, McGill University Deepak Kamlesh, DPhil Candidate in Mathematics, University of Oxford, UK David Kane, Harvard University Todd Kapitula, Calvin University Michael Kapovich, Distinguished Professor, University of California, Davis Anton Kapustin, California Institute of Technology David A. Kareken, Ph.D., Indiana University School of Medicine Svetlana Katok, Penn State University Eric Katz, The Ohio State University Louis H Kauffman, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, University of Illinois at Chicago Linda Keen Prof. Emerita, CUNY Graduate Center Julia Kempe, New York University Carlos Kenig, University of Chicago Shelly S Kennedy, University of Oklahoma Steve Kerckhoff, Stanford Bruce Kessler, Western Kentucky Uuniversity Mathematics Evgeniy Khain, Oakland University Parviz Khalili Mizan R. Khan, Professor, Eastern Connecticut State University Michael Khanevsky, Technion - Israel's Institute of Technology Konstantin Khanin, University of Toronto Michael Khasin, SGT Inc. Mikhail Khenner, Western Kentucky University Boris Khesin, University of Toronto Tanya Khovanova, MIT Keenan Kidwell, UT Austin James Kierstead, Victoria University of Wellington Thomas Kindred, University of Nebraska-Lincoln Rob Kirby, UC Berkeley Alexander Kirillov Jr, Chair, Math department, Stony Brook University Sergiu Klainerman, Princeton University John R. Klein, Wayne State University Dmitry Kleinbock, Acting Chair, Department of Mathematics, Brandeis University Alexander Kleshchev, University of Oregon E. Allen Knight, Spring Arbor University Thomas Koberda, University of Virginia Patrice Koehl, UC Davis Ilya Kofman, CUNY Oleg Kogan, Cal Poly Alex Kontorovich, Rutgers University Aryeh Kontorovich, Ben-Gurion University, Computer Science Vladimir Kontorovich, Department of Economics, Haverford College Ann E.K. Kosobud, Ph.D., Indiana University School of Medicine David Kraines, Duke University Nicolai Krylov, University of Minnesota Peter Kuchment, Texas A&M Nicholas Kuhn, University of Virginia Ramya Kumar Dionne Kunkel, The George Washington University Vadym Kurylenko, University of Hamburg Alfons Laarman, Leiden University Laurent Lafleche, University of Texas at Austin Kevin Lamb, University of the Pacific Michel L. Lapidus, University of California, Riverside Christopher J. Larsen, Worcester Polytechnic Institute Kyle Larson, University of Georgia Grant H Lathrom, Missouri Southern State University Gregory F. Lawler, University of Chicago Ruth Lawrence-Naimark, Hebrew University of Jerusalem David Layman, York College of Pennsylvania (adjunct) Sean Lawton, George Mason University Christophe Lecomte, member of the AMS Michelle LeMasurier, Hamilton College Christopher J Leininger, University of Illinois Mark Levi, Penn State Nate Levi, University of California Davis Genadi Levin, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Michael Levitin, University of Reading Yehuda John Levy, University of Glasgow Azriel Levy. Dept. of Mathematics, Hebrew University of Jerusalem Erica Li Tao Li, Boston College Anthony Licata, Australian National University Max Lieblich, University of Washington James Lin Nati Linial, The Hebrew University Benjamin Linowitz, Oberlin College Maria Lioudyno, University of California-Irvine Joseph Lipman, Professor emeritus of Mathematics, Purdue University Max Lipton, Cornell University Alexander Lisyansky, Queens College of CUNY Richard Litherland, Professor, Dept of Math, Louisiana State University Lance Littlejohn Charles Livingston, Indiana University Bloomington D.D. Long, UC Santa Barbara Vincent Longo, University of Nebraska-Lincoln John Lott, UC-Berkeley Rohan Loveland, Whitman College Monika Ludwig, TU Wien Dan Lynch, Williams College Misha Lyubich, Stony Brook University Shiqian Ma, UC Davis Eric Mack, Philosophy, Tulane University Blair F. Madore,  SUNY Potsdam Francesco Maggi, University of Texas at Austin Leonid Leonid Makar-Limanov, Wayne State University Peter Makienko, Instituto de Matematicas Fyodor Malikov, University of Southern California Michael Maller, Queens College CUNY (retired) Vladimir Mandelshtam, UC Irvine Fedor Manin, UCSB Benjamin Mann Christopher Manon, University of Kentucky Cy Maor, Hebrew University of Jerusalem Raffaele Marcovecchio, Italy Luana Maroja, Williams College William J. Martin, Worcester Polytechnic Institute Andrei Martinez-Finkelshtein, Baylor University Howard Masur, University of Chicago Jasmin Matz, U Copenhagen Ben McCarty, The University of Memphis Michael McCooey, Franklin & Marshall College Duncan McCoy, Université du Québec à Montréal Dusa McDuff, Barnard College James McKernan, UCSD William H. Meeks III, Professor of Mathematic, UMass Amherst Ari Meerson, Galilee Research Institute Baruch Meerson, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem Rick Mehta, Former Professor, Acadia University, Canada Moo Mele, University of Delhi Anton Mellit, University of Vienna Paul Melvin, Bryn Mawr College William W Menasco, University at Buffalo-SUNY Dean Menezes, UCLA Loïc Merel, IMJ-PRG Université de Paris William Messing, School of Mathematics University of Minnesota Ina Mette David A. Meyer, UC San Diego Nicholas Meyer, University of Nebraska — Lincoln Juan Migliore, University of Notre Dame Michael Mihalik, Professor of Mathematics, Vanderbilt University Claudia Miller, Syracuse University Steven J Miller, Williams College Willard Miller, University of Minnesota Chris Miller, Ohio State University Kenneth C Millett, University of California, Santa Barbara Michael Mills, Psychology Department, Loyola Marymount University Jan Minac, Western University Guido Mislin, Professor Emeritus ETH Zich Dorina Mitrea, Baylor University Boris Mityagin, Professor Emeritus, AMS Fellow; Ohio State University Boughalem Mohammed, PhD student university Regensburg Aydin Mohseni Monica Montano, Case Western Reserve University Richard Montgomery, UC Santa Cruz, distinguished professor Warren S. Moore, III, Newberry College John Morgan, Professor Emeritus, Columbia University Prof. Yoav Moriah, Dept of Math, Technion Israel Da'Shawn M. Morris, American Soldier Evan D. Morris, Prof. Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Biomedical Engineering, Pyschiatry, Yale University Henri Moscovici, Ohio State University Jean-Christophe Mourrat, Courant Institute, New York University Tomasz S. Mrowka, MIT Sujoy Mukherjee, The Ohio State University David Mumford, Emeritus Professor, Harvard and Brown Universities Julien Murzi, University of Salzburg Alexander Nabutovsky, Professor of Mathematics, University of Toronto Bruno Nachtergaele, University of California, Davis Ramin Naimi, Occidental College Fedor Nazarov, Kent State University Nikita Nekrasov, Simons Center for Geometry and Physics, Stony Brook University Yury Neretin, Pauli Institute, Vienna; Moscow State University Walter Neumann, Barnard College, Columbia University Andre Neves, University of Chicago Eran Nevo, Hebrew University Nicholas Nguyen, University of Kentucky Dr. Ngoc Nguyen, Western Kentucky University Yi Ni, California Institute of Technology Dennis Nieman Arjun Nigam Barbara Nimershiem, Franklin & Marshall College Leonard J. Nissim, Fordham University (retired) João Nogueira, University of Coimbra Emily Norton, TU Kaiserslautern Jonathan Novak, UC San Diego Dmitry Novikov, Weizmann Institute of Science Alexei Novikov, Penn State University Alan J. Nussbaum, Cornell University Kevin O’Bryant, CUNY Staten Island and The Graduate Center Serge Ochanine, University of Kentucky Crichton Ogle, Ohio State University Kasso A Okoudjou, UMD/MIT Andrei Okounkov, Columbia University Michael Olinick, Middlebury College Ebenezer de Oliveira, Ohio State University John Oprea, Professor Emeritus, Cleveland State University Matthew Osborne, Ohio State University Victor Ostrik, University of Oregon Valentin Ovsienko, CNRS, France Nicholas Owad, Colby College Peter Ozsvath, Princeton University Peter Y. Paik, Yonsei University George Pappas, Michigan State University Ziho Park, University of Chicago Jason Parsley, Wake Forest University Ori Parzanchevski, Hebrew University of Jerusalem Yekaterina Pavlova, Palomar College Natasa Pavlovic, University of Texas at Austin Casey Perin, University of California, Irvine Peter Perry, University of Kentucky Laura J. Person, State University of New York-Potsdam Timothy Perutz, UT Austin Yakov Pesin, Penn State University Jonathon Peterson, Purdue University Ina Petkova, Dartmouth College Yehuda Pinchover, Technion – Israel Institute of Technology Ross G. Pinsky, Department of Mathematics, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Daria Poliakova, Copenhagen University Carl Pomerance, Dartmouth College Emeritus Wai Yan Pong, CSU Dominguez Hills Sorin Popa, UCLA Serguei Popov, University of Campinas Erik Postma, Maplesoft Benedikt Pscher, University of Vienna Leonid Potyagailo, University of Lille, France Filip Pramenkovi., Univerza na Primorskem Adam Prenosil, Department of Mathematics, Vanderbilt University Kenneth Price, University of Wisconsin Oshkosh Marina Prokhorova, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology Jozef H. Przytycki, George Washington University Elbridge Gerry Puckett, Full Professor, Department of Mathematics, UC Davis Joshua Pughe-Sanford, Georgia Tech Jonathan Pyle You Qi, University of Virginia Stephen Quilley, SERS, University of Waterloo Maksym Radziwill, Caltech Shawn Rafalski, Fairfield University Surjeet Rajendran Zoi Rapti, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Alexander Rashkovskii, University of Stavangervanger Sarah Dean Rasmussen, University of Cambridge Jacob Rasmussen, Cambridge John Ratcliffe, Department of Mathematics, Vanderbilt University Animesh Ray, Professor, Keck Graduate Institute Margaret A. Readdy, University of Kentucky Robert Redfield Charles Reichhardt, Los Alamos National Laboratory Alan Reid, Rice University Ben Reid, Lander University Hanna Reisler, Professor of Chemistry, USC Kui Ren, Columbia University/University of Texas at Austin Nicolai Reshetikhin, University of California, Berkeley Vladimir Retakh, Rutgers University Ilya Reviakine, University of Washington - Seattle Lev Reyzin, Department of Mathematics (MSCS), University of Illinois at Chicago Brendon Rhoades, UC San Diego Henry Ricardo, City University of New York (Retired) Donald Richards, Penn State University Tom Richmond, Western Kentucky University Bastian Rieck, ETH Zurich Hans Riess, University of Pennsylvania Timothy Riley, Cornell University Igor Rivin, Temple University Neil Robertson, Emeritus Professor, Ohio State University Altha Rodin, University of Texas at Austin Gregory Rodin, Oden Institute, University of Texas at Austin Federico Rodriguez Hertz, Penn State Casey Rodriguez, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Claude Roger, Pr Emeritus, Université de Lyon Dan Romik, UC Davis Jason Rosenhouse, James Madison University Joachim Rosenthal, University of Zurich Hugo Rossi, Mathematics, University of Utah Paolo Rossi, Università degli Studi di Padova Raphael Rouquier, UCLA Colin Rourke, Emeritus Professor of Mathematics, University of Warwick Lev Rozansky, Professor, Department of Mathematics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Daniel Ruberman, Brandeis University Volodya Rubtsov, Université d'Angers (France) Mark Rudelson, University of Michigan Lee Rudolph, Clark University Andrey Rukhin David B Rush Lorenzo Sadun, University of Texas at Austin Gershon Sageev, UB math. dept. Abhishek Saha, Reader in Mathematics at Queen Mary University of London Masahico Saito, USF Yiannis Sakellaridis, Johns Hopkins University Michael Saks, Rutgers University Andrew Salmon, MIT Philip Carl Salzman, Emeritus Professor of Anthropology, McGill University Wendy Sandler, University of Haifa Mark Sapir, Vanderbilt University Martin Scharlemann, University of California at Santa Barbara B. Schaum, USF Michael Schein, Bar-Ilan University Hal Schenck, Department of Mathematics, Auburn University Wilfried Schmid, Harvard University Ulrike Schneider, TU Vienna Jennifer Schultens, UC-Davis Peter Schumer, Middlebury College Richard Schwartz, Chancellor's Professor of Mathematics, Brown University Albert Schwarz, UC Davis, emeritus, AMS Fellow Peter Scott, University of Michigan Zlil Sela, Hebrew University Marjorie Senechal, Smith College Ambar Sengupta, University of Connecticut Illya Serdyuk Vera Serganova, UC Berkeley Brigitte Servatius, WPI Cheri Shakiban, University of St. Thomas Xuancheng Shao, University of Kentucky Uri Shapira Daniel Shapiro, Ohio State University Dmitry Shemetov, UCDavis Graduate Student Zhongwei Shen, University of Kentucky Vivek Shende, UC Berkeley Malcolm Sherman, UAlbany, SUNY Theodore James Sherman, Professor of English, Middle Tennessee State University Mikhail Shifman, University of Minnesota Evgeny Shinder, University of Sheffield Aleksander Shmakov, University of Georgia Tatiana Shubin, San Jose State University Adam Sikora, SUNY Buffalo Daniel Silver, University of South Alabama Jim Simons, Simons Foundation Howard Skogman, SUNY Brockport Theodore Slaman, University of California Berkeley Nat Smale, Math Department, University of Utah Stephen Smale, math (emeritus) Univ of Calif. Berkeley Roxana Smarandache David C. Smith, Williams College Michael Smith, UC Berkeley Bert Frank Smits Matthew Snyder Sergey I Sobolev, retired Mikhail Sodin, Tel Aviv University Houshang H. Sohrab, Towson University Sara A. Solla, Northwestern University Jake Solomon, Hebrew University Ronald Solomon, Professor Emeritus, Ohio State University Jack Sonn, Professor Emeritus, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Jenya Soprunova, Kent State University Alexander Soshnikov, UC Davis Mathematics Department Kannan Soundararajan, Stanford University Steven Sperber, University of Minnesota, School of Mathematics Andrew Staats Gigliola Staffilani, MIT Joseph Stahl, UC Berkeley Alina Stancu, Concordia University Michael Stay, CTO, Pyrofex Corp. Joseph Steinberg, University of Toronto Ronald J. Stern, Prof and Dean Emeritus UC Irvine Thomas Strohmer, University of California, Davis Walter Stromquist, Bryn Mawr College Professor Jeffrey Stuart, Pacific Lutheran University Benny Sudakov, Professor, ETH Zurich John Sullivan, AMS Fellow, TU Berlin Mikael Sundqvist, Lund University, Sweden Frank Swenton, Middlebury College Sergei Tabachnikov, Penn State Thibaud Taillefumier, UT Austin Ramin Takloo-Bighash, University of Illinois at Chicago David Talcott, The King's College (NY) Julie Tannenbaum, Pomona College Terence Tao, UCLA Clifford Henry Taubes, Department of Mathematics, Harvard University Laurence R. Taylor, University of Notre Dame Scott Taylor, Colby College Michael Temkin, Chair, Department of Mathematics, Hebrew University Ivo Terek, Ohio State University Morwen Thistlethwaite, University of Tennessee-Knoxville Lola Thompson, Max Planck Institute and Oberlin College Frank J. Tipler, Professor of Mathematics, Tulane University Antonino Travia, student at the University of South Florida Lisa Traynor, Bryn Mawr College Nancy S True, Professor Emerita, UC Davis Bena Tshishiku, Brown University Anastasiia Tsvietkova, Rutgers University, Newark Henry Tucker, UC Riverside Alexander Tumanov, Professor, University of Illinois Alexander Turbiner, AMS member and APS Fellow, National University of Mexico Victor Turchin, Kansas State University Ilya Tyomkin, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev Nikos Tzirakis University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign John Urschel, MIT Alek Vainshtein, University of Haifa Ravi Vakil, Stanford University Lou van den Dries, University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana Allan van Hulst, Max Planck Institute, the Netherlands Donald Vandegrift, The College of New Jersey Yakov Varshavsky, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Monica Vazirani, UC Davis Daniel Velleman, emeritus, Amherst College J. David Velleman, Department of Philosophy, NYU Akshay Venkatesh, Institute for Advanced Study Oleg Viro, Stony Brook University Misha Vishik, Department of Mathematics, The University of Texas at Austin Angelo Vistoli, Scuola Normale Superiore, Italy David A. Vogan, Jr. Dept of Mathematics, MIT Vladislav Vysotsky, University of Sussex Rebecca Wahl, Butler University Bronislaw Wajnryb, Rzeszow University of Technology, Poland Kevin Walker, MSQ Lynne H Walling, University of Bristol (Fellow of the AMS) Yi Wang, SUNY Buffalo Zhenghan Wang, Microsoft Station Q and UCSB math Rachel Ward, UT Austin Michael S. Waterman, University of Southern California Paul Wedrich, MPIM Shmuel Weinberger, University of Chicago Steven H. Weintraub, Lehigh University Aaron Weiss, mekaz lev acadamy Benjamin Weiss, Hebrew Univ. of Jerusalem Hans Wenzl, UC San Diego Brian White, Stanford University Steven R. White, MD, University of Chicago Susan G. Williams, University of South Alabama Elizabeth Wilmer, Oberlin College Peter Winkler, Dartmouth College / National Museum of Mathematics Jeff Witmer, Oberlin College Curt Wittig, Professor of Chemistry, USC Gershon Wolansky, Technion, Haifa Israel Helen Wong, Claremont McKenna College Mark R. Woodard, Furman University Hung-Hsi Wu, Univ. of Cal., Berkeley Jared Wunsch, Northwestern University Abraham Wyner, UPenn Eugene Z. Xia, National Cheng Kung University Dongbin Xiu, Ohio State University Sergei Yakovenko, Weizmann Institute of Science Michael Yampolsky, University of Toronto Deane Yang, New York University Irina Yaroshevskaya, PhD in Computer Science Eylem Zeliha Yildiz, Harvard University Alexander Yong, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Amanda Young, TU Munich Elena Yudovina, PhD, C.H. Robinson Svetoslav Zahariev, City University of New York Labib Zakaria, Undergraduate Student at Oregon State University Yuri Zarhin, Pennsylvania State University Vladimir Zbarsky Ng Ze-An, London School of Economics Steven Zegas, concerned citizen Anton Zeitlin, Louisiana State University Ofer Zeitouni, Weizmann Institute Shaul Zemel, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel Andrew Zeng Chao Zhang, University of Southern California Mengyuan Zhang, UC Berkeley Yilong Zhang, Ohio State University Zhenghe Zhang, UC Riverside Vadim Zharnitsky, University of Illinois Zvi Ziegler, Technion, Haifa, Israel Ludmil Zikatanov, Penn State Gordan Zitkovic, The University of Texas at Austin Nahum Zobin, College of William and Mary Alex Zupan, University of Nebraska-Lincoln Artem Zvavitch, Kent State University Peter Zvengrowski, Professor Emeritus, University of Calgary A Response to “A Word From…” in the December 2019 Issue of the AMS Notices There is a false equivalence underlying the entire argument behind Abigail Thompson’s essay in the December 2019 issue of the AMS Notices. Thompson draws a comparison between the loyalty oaths of the 1950s in the University of California system on one hand, and the diversity statements that are currently required by applicants for positions in that same system on the other. Loyalty oaths were an in.sidious outgrowth of the Red Scare that gripped the nation at the outset of the Cold War. Public figures like US Sena.tor Joseph McCarthy and California State Senator Jack B. Tenney1 were capitalizing on the allure of fascist political techniques during an era when citizens had well-founded fears of nuclear war. Their tacit goal was to sow fear of the “other” in order to maintain their own power. The explicit goal of diversity statements is to promote equity in the workplace, in higher education, and in the marketplace of ideas. I fail to see how these are comparable. Thompson also misrepresents how the rubrics for evalu.ating the diversity statements are to be applied. Here is what the Berkeley Office for Faculty Equity and Welfare says: Consider creating a cut-off score for advancing equity and inclusion, below which a candidate would not move forward in the search process (would be considered below the bar), regardless of their scores in other areas, similar to what would be done for research quality or plans. For example, if 5 points are given for various components of advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion (e.g., understanding 5 points, track record 5 points, and plans 5 points), assign a value below which a candidate would not be considered competitive and would not move forward regardless of their scores in other areas (e.g., any single 0 or 1 out of 5 would disqualify a candidate from further consideration). Set a high bar.2 These are stated as recommendations, and it is left to the faculty to decide how important equity and inclusion are to their department. Thompson’s approach is to appeal to emotion, and presents no evidence that this is having a neg.ative impact on any actual mathematics department’s hiring practices.3 The AMS editors have failed the membership by publishing a prominent essay by an esteemed officer whose arguments are fallacious and scientifically ill-founded. Additionally, Thompson asserts, “Politics are a reflec.tion of how you believe society should be organized.” No, politics is the exercise of power in service to an ideology. Individual and institutional values are a reflection of how you believe society should be organized. The University of California is displaying its institutional values by requiring a commitment to diversity. It has the authority to promote this vision by recommending that each department utilize a policy of inclusion and equity in their hiring practices. 1Senator Tenney repeatedly introduced legislation requiring loyalty oaths, which ultimately forced the hand of the President of the UC system. 2Read Part 1 of the Candidate Evaluation tab at https://ofew .berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity /support-faculty-search-committees. 3By contrast, UC Berkeley has produced an extensive report that docu.ments the effect of hiring with a diversity focus in mind: https://ofew .berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/searching_for_a_diverse_ faculty-_data-driven_recommendations.pdf. Thompson has opted to politicize this issue by exercising her power in her capacities as chair of the UC Davis math.ematics department and Vice President of the AMS.4 Racist and sexist policies—both written and unwritten— are obstacles for many Americans who would like to seek higher education and opportunity. This is documented fact, not politics. Professors who are mindful of this fact will present an antiracist and antisexist face for the University of California system. Values, not politics. The UC system is taking an active role in addressing these facts and pro.moting these values. In doing so, they continue to uphold Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun’s words: “In order to get beyond racism, we must first take account of race. There is no other way. And in order to treat some persons equally, we must treat them differently.”5 This opinion is my own, and may not represent that of my employer. —Dr. Xander Faber IDA/Center for Computing Sciences (Received November 25, 2019) In Response to Prof. AbigailThompson Dear Sir/Madam, Abigail Thompson’s article which appears in the Decem.ber 2019 issue of the Notices of the American Mathematical Society deserves a thorough airing. I disagree, very strongly, with, in my view, its very limited sense of the scale and scope of the mathematics community and its conflation of the use of diversity statements in some hiring practices for mathematics jobs with McCarthyism. I recognize that the AMS has worked and continues to work assiduously to address the issue of underrepresenta.tion. However, the evidence, much of it documented and disseminated by the AMS, makes very clear that the actual outcomes, the results, i.e. are we as a community demon.strably more diverse than we were ten years ago, indicate that much work still needs to be done in order for us to be truly a community of equity and excellence. In a deep sense, this essay, from a Vice President of the AMS, even though Prof. Thompson makes clear that she speaks for herself and not for the Society the article’s tagline prominently identifies her as a Vice President of the AMS, makes a compelling argument for the need for diversity statements in hiring. For context, consider the following questions: how many tenured African American professors of mathematics are there in the UC system? Closer to my home, how many 4In the published article, the words “This essay contains my opinions as an individual” are jarringly juxtaposed with the heading “Abigail Thompson, a Vice President of the AMS” in larger blue font. 5Justice Blackmun wrote this while contemplating the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment during the 1978 case Regents of the University of California v. Bakke. African American assistant professors do we have on the tenure track in the entire CUNY system in mathematics? At Medgar Evers College, where I have worked for almost twenty-five years, we have two, yes two, tenured mathema.ticians of African descent. The pace of change, when viewed from my vantage point is painfully slow. I note, for some perspective, that Black Americans have received just one (1) percent of the doctoral degrees in mathematics granted over the last decade. How do we change this? We must become a community that holds, as a priority, for the discipline of mathematics, the critical importance of increasing the number of African American and other mathematicians of color. How do we do this? It is evident that we must hire mathematicians who have demonstrated some evidence of their willingness to work on this challenge. I.e., if we are serious, our intent must be accompanied by some supporting infrastructure, an appropriate set of policies and practices aimed at achieving our desired ends. Therefore, requiring that applicants write some form of diversity statement is but a small piece of such an infrastructure. A diversity statement is simply an element of one’s Teaching Philosophy. It is not a political identity. I close by reiterating: research requires new ideas; new ideas come from new people. Excellence in mathematics is a function of diversity. We, the mathematical community, elide this truth at our peril. Be well. Terrence —Terrence Blackman, PhD Associate Professor Department of Mathematics School of Science, Health & Technology Medgar Evers College, CUNY Visiting Professor Department of Aeronautics & Astronautics Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Member, Executive Council The National Alliance for Doctoral Studies in the Mathematical Sciences —Building a New American Community in the Mathematical and Statistical Sciences https://www.mathalliance.org (Received November 27, 2019) Thank You (Article by A. Thompson) Dear Notices, Thank you for publishing the article by Prof. Thompson “A word from...” in the December issue. We read it with in.terest, as it brings readers’ attention to a subject of universal (in our opinion) importance. It also demonstrates personal courage of the author and the editor, as the expressed view.point was likely to stir a controversy. We are concerned about the online campaign against the Notices and personally Prof. Thompson, following the publication of her article. It is a sad irony that the reaction of Prof. Thompson’s online opponents only adds value to her argument that our times share some common features with darker periods in history. We strongly believe that boycotts and the “cancel cul.ture” have no place in academia. They reinforce fear, shame, and self-censorship, and eventually hinder our ability to search for the truth. Finding an optimal balance between various approaches to improve functioning of the aca.demic institutions, while respecting interests of different groups, as well as individual freedoms and non-mainstream opinions, is not an easy task. We view the article of Prof. Thompson as an important contribution to a civilized discussion on this topic. Sincerely, Iosif Polterovich Université de Montréal Leonid Polterovich Tel Aviv University (Received November 27, 2019) Supporting Letter Dear Erica, I would like to express my gratitude for your courageous decision to publish the opinion article by Abigail Thomp.son in the recent issue of the Notices. And these feelings extend to all who supported you in this decision. Free expression of opinion, which this article contains, is absolutely crucial in any policy making, and I find it very troubling that some people try to suppress debate by in.timidation—something one would expect in a totalitarian regime and not in the USA. I observed a triple irony in some reactions to Abigail’s article. 1. The bullying and intimidating responses only make Abigail’s analogy with McCarthyism so much more convincing. 2. The participants in the hounding campaign commit the very offences that they profess to be against, and do so in a much worse way. 3. The campaigners’ loudest objection is to the very thing (the analogy with McCarthyism) they themselves are most guilty of. You and Abigail have my full support and admiration. With best wishes, Mark Levi Mathematics Department Penn State University (Received November 27, 2019) Real and Fake Fight for Diversity The heated debate in the US mathematical community that followed the publication of the article “A word from...” by Abigail Thompson in the December issue of the Notices of the AMS crossed the Atlantic. This short letter is an opinion of an individual from its other side. It is of course difficult to compare the systems and traditions of different coun.tries, but such a comparison could still be useful, especially when the debate also crossed the boundaries of cordiality... Hiring committees in France never ask candidates for diversity statements, but most of my colleagues (all that I know) participate in a number of different ways in the long fight for inclusion and diversity. There are many programs, such as “Math en Jeans,” “Fête de la Science,” etc. All of them popularize mathematics in high and elementary schools, one goal of these programs is precisely to attract students from a variety of backgrounds. People are happy to participate in these programs, there are always many volunteers. The administration also contributes. In par.ticular, students pay nothing for their education, and they have a full social security cover. The scientific community vigilantly follows all the changes proposed by the adminis.tration and the government, and protests when some parts of this system are threatened. A mandatory diversity statement in the hiring process does not seem to be an efficient way to improve the di.versity. How can a hiring committee see the difference between sincere and “fake” diversity statements, written (or copied from the internet) by a desperate candidate? Isn’t it more useful to work with the administration, sponsors, government? Something tells me that people who do this real work are not the same who write the most compelling diver.sity statements, or organize a witch-hunt against Abigail Thompson. At least, it is clear that her article in the Notices is sincere, it contributes to the real fight for diversity. Respect your future colleagues, spare their energy, and invite them to participate in the real work to improve the diversity, rather than torture themselves with writing statements in stereotyped language! —Valentin Ovsienko CNRS Researcher, France (Received November 28, 2019) Letter to the Editor, Notices AMS on: Diversity Dear editor, In my opinion, diversity is an important social and aca.demic value, the pursuit of which can also be an important means for academic excellence. One reason we need to pay special attention to diversity is that there are various mech.anisms against it, which in and of themselves are harmful to academic life and excellence, such as dominance and, at times, even bullying by members of majority/power groups. On this and other issues, academic institutions have the right and duty to form academic policies and pursue them, and also the obligation to allow free debate about these policies. If you feel uncomfortable about making a one-time statement about a policy you disagree with, and I can certainly understand this feeling, think about how un.comfortable it is to be a member of a minority group that cannot freely express her or his views, and who faces unjust judgment, and at times even hostility, on a regular basis. —Gil Kalai Hebrew University of Jerusalem and IDC, Herzliya (Received November 28, 2019) Letter to the Notices of the AMS In an essay in the December 2019 issue of the Notices, Abigail Thompson describes the mandatory "Diversity Statement" (mDS) that mathematics job applicants to UC Schools must submit together with their regular applica.tions. At some campuses, the mDS is evaluated, in various categories, according to a detailed list of criteria (called a "rubric"). If an applicant to Berkeley, for example, merely says that she advocates “mentoring, treating all students the same regardless of background”, she merits a score of 1–2 out of a possible top score of 5 in the “track record for advancing diversity” category (see * below). Hiring committees (at UC Davis and Berkeley, in particular), are encouraged by the Administration to use the rubrics, establish a cutoff and eliminate candidates who score below the cutoff as a first step in the hiring process for all hires. In this way Diversity Statements diminish the value of mathematical achievement as the key element in securing a position at a UC Mathematics Department. Mandatory Diversity Statements undermine Faculty Governance. Should the use of scored diversity statements become required as the first step in the hiring process, this opens the way for Administrators, who have no profes.sional knowledge of mathematics, to exert primary control over the hiring of mathematicians. And indeed, testing the waters, small scale pilot programs have already been implemented at various UC schools requiring the first cut on hiring to be based on such scored diversity statements. We applaud Abigail Thompson for her courageous lead.ership in bringing this issue to the attention of the broader Mathematics Community. As she says in her essay: “Mathematics has made progress over the past decades towards becoming a more welcoming, inclusive discipline. We should continue to do all we can to reduce barriers to participation in this most beautiful of fields.... There are reasonable means to further this goal: encouraging students from all backgrounds to enter the mathematics pipeline, trying to ensure that talented mathematicians don’t leave the profession, creating family-friendly policies, and sup.porting junior faculty at the beginning of their careers, for example.” We agree wholeheartedly with these sentiments. It is important to strive to hire faculty that will make the at.mosphere more welcoming to all. It is also important to recognize and help reduce various difficulties still faced by underrepresented groups. But as Abigail says, there are mistakes to avoid: mDS‘s are one of them. Finally, we commend the Editorial Board at the Notices for opening up the discussion on this very important matter. Sincerely, Adebisi Agboola, Michael Aizenman, Noga Alon, Ekaterina Amerik, Nalini Anantharaman, Michael Anderson, George Andrews, Scott Armstrong, James Arthur, Eric Babson, Viviane Baladi, Igor Belegradek, Iosif Bernstein, Roman Bezrukavnikov, Jean-Michel Bismut, Fedor Bogomolov, Lilliane Borcea, Alexei Borodin, Boris Botvinnik, Paul Bourgade, Brian Bowditch, Lewis Bowen, Martin Bridson, Robert Bryant, Inna Bumagina, Oliver Buhler, Leonid Bunimovich, Dimitri Burago, Sylvain Cappell, Erik Carlsson, Gunnar Carlsson, Mei-Chu Chang, Sun-Yung Alice Chang, Jeff Cheeger, Alexandre Chorin, Maria Chudnovsky, Christopher Connell, Alain Connes, Peter Constantin, Kevin Corlette, Christopher Croke, Carina Curto, Xianzhe Dai, Panagiota Daskalopoulus, Percy Deift, Camillo de Lellis, Laura DeMarco, Yakov Eliashberg, Michael Entov, Alexander Eremenko, Anna Erschler, Alex Eskin, Maria J. Esteban, John Ewing, Anna Felikson, Michael Freedman, Susan Friedlander, Eric Friedlander, Hillel Furstenberg, Denis Gaitsgory, Ross Geoghegan, Pierre Germain, Alexander Givental, Eleftherios Gkioulekas, James Glimm, William Goldman, Anton Gorodetski, Fan Chung Graham, Misha Gromov, Benedict Gross, Victor Guillemin, Sinan Gunturk, Matthew Gursky, Ursula Hamenstadt, Qing Han, Dennis Hejhal, Harald Andres Helfgott, Federico Rodriguez Hertz, Helmut Hofer, Elizabeth Its, Alexander Its, Henryk Iwaniec, David Jerison, Svetlana Jitomirskaya, Vaughan F.R. Jones, Vadim Kaimanovich, Ilya Kapovitch, Michael Kapovitch, Svetlana Katok, Jerry Kazdan, David Kazhdan, Thomas Koberda, Carlos Kenig, Olga Kharlampovich, Robion Kirby, Sergiu Klainerman, Abel Klein, Bruce Kleiner, Alexander Kleshchev, Robert Kohn, Janos Kollar, Alex Kontorovich, Maxim Kontsevich, Irwin Kra, Peter Kuchment, Gregory Lawler, H. Blaine Lawson, Claude LeBrun, Francois Ledrappier, Mark Levi, Fanghua Lin, Nati Linial, Darren Long, John Lott, Zhiquin Lu, George Lusztig, Misha Lyubich, Jeremy MacDonald, Fedor Malikov, Eugenia Malinnikova, Leonid Makar-Limanov, Sonja Mapes, Peter May,  Howard Masur, Barry Mazur, David McLaughlin, Michael McQuillen, William Menasco, Marie-Louise Michelson, John Millson, Vitali Milman, Yair Minsky, Mahan Mj, Sophie Morel, Richard Montgomery, John Morgan, Henri Moscovici, Thomasz Mrowka, Steven J. Miller, Werner Muller, David Mumford, Aaron Naber, Alex Nabutovsky, Tatiana Nagnibeda, Yury Neretin, Andre Neves, Charles Newman, Alexei Novikov, Hee Oh, Andrei Okunkov, Alexander Olshanskii, Jean-Pierre Otal, Janos Pach, Richard Palais, Dimitri Panov, Raman Parimala, Kirsi Peltonen, Robert Penner, Yakov Pesin, Stefanie Petermichl, Anthony Phillips, Leonid Polterovich, Mihnea Popa, Leonid Potyagailo, Cheryl Praeger, Elbridge Gerry Puckett, Alexander Razborov, Andre Resnikov, Vladimir Rokhlin, Dan Romik, Xiaochun Rong, Regina Rotman, Hyam Rubinstein, Laure Saint Raymond, Michael Saks, Mark Sapir, Peter Sarnak, Wilfried Schmid, Richard Schoen, Jennifer Schultens, Richard Schwartz, Zlil Sela, Vera Serganova, Sylvia Serfaty, Natasa Sesum, Peter Shalen, Julius Shaneson, Jalal Shatah, Steve Shkoller, Alexandra Shlapentokh, Carol Shubin, James Simons, Thomas Spencer, Jeffrey Streets, Catherine Sulem, Gigliola Staffilani, Daniel Stein, Ronald Stern, Daniel Stroock, Tatiana Suslina, Gabor Szekelyhidi, Sergei Tabachnikov, Leon Takhtajan, Clifford Taubes, Michael Taylor, Susanna Terracini, Chuu-Lian Terng, Craig Tracy, Yuri Tschinkel, Alek Vainshtein, S.R. Srinivsa Varadhan, Vlad Vicol, Dan-Virgil Voiculescu, Claire Voisin, Simone Warzel, Wei-Min Wang, Guofang Wei, Shmuel Weinberger, Benjamin Weiss, Brian White, Daniel Wise, Sergei Yakovenko, Paul Yang, Guoliang Yu, Yuri Zarhin, Efim Zelmanov, Zhimin Zhang, Ludmil Zikatanov * If you insert the following into a google search, the first thing which comes up is a pdf with the rubric for Berkeley: rubric_to_assess_candidate_contributions_to_diversity _equity_and_inclusion-1.pdf (Received December 5, 2019) A Letter to the Notices I applaud Abigail Thompson for her thought-provoking and brave essay (December 2019 Notices) arguing against mandatory diversity statements from academic job appli.cants. While we should undoubtedly try to reduce barriers to participation in mathematics, requiring diversity state.ments is a political litmus test that should have no place in any university that values truth and free expression. In fact, as Dr. Thompson describes, the rubric used for grading these statements recommends a low score to any candidate who merely states they will treat students equally regardless of background; to get a high score on these statements one needs to describe activities “promoting different identity groups” and have a strong “interest in di.mensions of diversity that result from different identities.” Whatever one’s position on promoting people based on the identity group they belong to (as opposed to treating them as individuals) or on the kind of intersectionalism alluded to above, it cannot be denied that this is a political/ philosophical stand, and so this rubric necessarily excludes people who may not agree with this stand. Incidentally, one of the oft-mentioned benefits of diver.sity is that one needs multiple viewpoints and perspectives to solve difficult problems. However, the term “identity” as used in the context of diversity statements is never inter.preted to include political or philosophical identity. This means that the high-scoring applicants, who are therefore likely to get the job, are of a relatively homogeneous polit.ical bent, which ironically goes against the very essence of viewpoint diversity and negates the benefit mentioned above. Sincerely, Abhishek Saha Queen Mary University of London (Received December 6, 2019) Letter to the Editor Dear Editor, I am writing to express my strong support for your deci.sion to publish Abigail Thompson’s piece in the December Notices of the AMS. I am truly dismayed by the vitriolic attacks on her and the AMS for allowing an open exchange of opinions on an important and controversial topic. Please do not cave in to such pressure tactics. In standing up for Abigail‘s right to express her opinion, you will serve the best interests of your readers, of the AMS, and of academics at large. Regards, Victor Vianu Professor of Computer Science UC San Diego (Received December 8, 2019) Letter to the Editor Dear AMS editor, I was saddened to see the reaction from some of our colleagues to Prof. Thompson’s opinion piece in the last edition. Though my opinion may differ from hers, I support her freedom to express her opinion publicly. The fact that there is disagreement should encourage us all to have an open and respectful discussion in our community of what are the best strategies to achieve a diverse community. The personal attacks that she has been confronted with are uncalled for. Let's remember that part of diversity is the freedom to have and express diverse opinions. Regards, Shachar Lovett Associate Professor Computer Science and Engineering University of California, San Diego (Received December 8, 2019) Letter to the Editor Dear Editor, I was delighted to see the December Notices of the AMS publish Abigail Thompson’s thoughtful article. I was equally shocked and disappointed to see the subsequent attacks on the AMS. The AMS Notices did what it is sup.posed to do: Promoted then open exchange of thoughtful opinions on an important and controversial topic. Please continue on your mission. Regards, Yannis Papakonstantinou Professor of Computer Science and Engineering UC San Diego (Received December 10, 2019) Letter in Relation to Abigail Thompson‘s Essay Universities that want to value diversity are requiring diversity statements as a way to demonstrate this to the applicants. What can possibly go wrong with that? Un.fortunately, an unintended and yet pervasive effect of the diversity statements in practice is the normalization and encouragement of the worst sexist/racist prejudices, the very thing they are supposed to fight. The strongest open sexism I have ever felt in academia happened around diversity statements that we’ve been dealing with at UCs for over 10 years. People often list writing joint papers with women as their contributions to diversity, something that may have been akin to the “I am not a sexist” declaration in the 70s, but definitely has the opposite connotation at this time and age. Occasionally students even refer to their (prominent) female advisors in this regard! Worse yet, some job-seekers list their col.laboration with female peers as contribution to diversity. Regardless of their intent, it definitely hurts the image of young women mentioned that way (as well as, of course, of women as a group) in the community‘s eyes. At my university, we also have (not fully mandatory, so far) diversity statements for all our merit actions, happen.ing roughly once every three years. Some faculty do the same, listing collaborating with (often senior!) women, inviting women to conferences, etc as their contribution to diversity. Some list their appointing as editors women who are a lot more distinguished than most of the rest of the editors of that journal as expanding professional opportunities for women. While few people write such insulting statements, what is disturbing is the fact that the evaluators behave as if it is OK, communicating to the broader community that it actually is OK. Needless to say how humiliating and discouraging it is for women to constantly read things like that even in re.gards to the highest achievers in the community. I believe people writing those things don’t necessarily genuinely believe in the inferiority of women they mention in such a disparaging way. It is just that few have done real diver.sity-related activities, and the most impudent ones among the others feel compelled to list something, sometimes also encouraged by the success of their federal support applications, where they routinely include similar things. Then, the clueless ones copy from their successful friends. Luckily, many people never read those statements, but ev.eryone who actually reads them as business as usual, will only get their biases strengthened as a result. I have always appreciated the inclusive atmosphere of my community in mathematical physics, where I have long felt a sense of belonging. Many people in this community have, directly or indirectly, strongly contributed to the di.versity and inclusion through both creating the respectful climate and through their support and encouragement of colleagues, in particular, of me, which has greatly enabled my growth. It is crucial, however, that to them I was never a commodity to be reported upon, as is implicitly encour.aged by the diversity statements. I strongly believe it is important to work on improving climate and inclusivity in general, and some of the steps already made in this direction have been good. For exam.ple, I am grateful for the education I received on internal biases. I am someone who would not have had a chance in academia if affirmative action had not existed when I was hired in 1993. Yet, it was at the time when I had already done some very important work, and preferential treatment shouldn’t have been needed in my case, in an ideal world without biases. I support efforts that encourage fairness in the hiring process, and in particular open hiring com.mittees’ eyes on all sorts of biases (gender, minority, lesser institution...) that could affect their own evaluation as well as some recommendation letters. Unfortunately, the focus on diversity statements only takes attention away from this important topic. Moreover, I believe that at tenure track hiring, which is largely about promise, the difficulties that affect most women and minorities at the early stages should be taken into account, in a sensible way. It may also be justified to resolve some other ties taking into account the role model considerations. However, I think that the often present push to increase percentage of women beyond what is currently reasonably warranted by merit, only multiplies the biases, is very damaging for the community’s perception of women as a group, and thus is very harmful for the climate. As one example, I was recently on a committee to select the winner of an important prize. It went to a female mathematician. I am sure that most people who don't closely know her or her work, when learning the news, thought “of course, they wanted to select a woman”. Yet her gender had zero influence on our considerations, there was no push on the committee, and she was selected from all the applications purely on scientific merit according to the prize criteria. The value of this well-deserved prize is not at all the same for her as it would have been if she was a man. As another recent example, I was on a committee that had to select a couple of graduate students. I suggested a student, arguing that she was the most accomplished one on the list. As if not hearing my arguments, a diversity-minded colleague imme.diately suggested to also add another female student, who was one of the least accomplished. If both were selected, what message would it have sent to them as well as the other students? An unfairness present in some selections inevitably leads to it being multiplied by a large factor in people's perception and viewed as a universal phenome.non, thus to highly increased prejudices. I don't think this is the desired outcome. I also think it is good to hire people who will not have a negative effect on the atmosphere, those who are sup.portive to students and colleagues, and not disrespectful, indifferent, or discouraging. Yet, diversity statements are a very poor, if not a counterproductive, tool for making such a distinction. Genuine activities that lead to improved in.clusion should definitely be valued, just like any other im.portant service. Yet, if the word comes out that co-authoring papers with women no longer counts, the same people will rush to have some relevant diversity checkmarks. But will a workshop for women run by a person who believes in their inferiority be a positive contribution? In practice, much of the diversity activism it would encourage will be fake or tone-deaf, and ultimately only harmful to the climate. In my own experience, some of the best contributors to a positive climate have been strong mathematicians who show interest in the work of others. An excellent example is Jean Bourgain. He was interested in good mathematics and showed zero prejudice. He strongly influenced careers of a number of prominent men and women at formative stages. He conveyed respect and always talked in a subtly encouraging way. I knew the fact that I was a woman was irrelevant to him, and all this gave me great inspiration and encouragement. I see him as a great contributor to diversity and an inclusive climate.  People with checkmark diversity activities would pass the UC diversity rubric barrier. Would Jean Bourgain? —Svetlana Jitomirskaya UC Irvine (Received December 10, 2019) Letter to the editor Dear AMS editors, I read with interest the letters section of the most recent AMS Notices. The three multi-signatory letters about Abigail Thompson’s opinion piece in particular caught my atten.tion. One letter applauded the Notices Editorial Board for publishing Thompson’s piece, and concurred with Thomp.son’s assessment that mandatory diversity statements are a mistake. Another letter criticized an article from the website QSIDE, which was itself critical of the opinion piece. A third letter expressed disappointment with the Notices for publishing Thompson’s piece. If my tally is correct the letters together have over 1400 signatories. It occurred to me that, in light of the remark.ably high level of response, it would be interesting to take a look at the demographics of the signatories, and that is what I do below. Let me refer to the letter which supported Thompson’s assessment and the letter criticizing the QSIDE article as letters 1 and 2, respectively, and the letter criticiz.ing Thompson’s article as letter 3. I assessed the gender of the signatories of the letters to the best of my ability, but my assessments may not have been perfect, and do not account for the fact that some of the signatories are non-binary. With that caveat, here are my findings. The 678 signatories of letter 1 were 13.7% female. The 217 signatories of letter 2 were 19.8% female. The 620 signatories of letter 3 were 50.1% female. I also assessed the number of signatories at top-10 universities (Princeton, Harvard, Columbia, MIT, Yale, Stanford, Chicago, Penn, Northwestern, Duke). Letter 1: 6.3%; letter 2: 22.6%; letter 3: 3.1%. After looking at the websites of hundreds of the sig.natories, I would also offer the following non-rigorous assessments. The signatories of letters 1 and 2 are on average older, whiter, and more likely to already have tenured re.search positions at R1 universities. The signatories of letter 3 are on average younger, more ethnically diverse, and have more precarious employment. If the signatories of the letters are, taken together, rep.resentative of our community as a whole, then it seems that, on the whole, the gatekeepers are against this sort of attempt to build a more diverse mathematical community. Those who have been shut out, on the other hand, are much more favourable. I find this rather depressing. Those of us with the power to make academia less exclusionary should be putting our energy into doing so, rather than using our time to sketch spurious analogies between diversity initia.tives and McCarthyism, and to cry foul when those on the outside object. Sincerely yours, Louigi Addario-Berry Department of Mathematics and Statistics McGill University (Received December 16, 2019) Strong protest against the article by Prof. Thompson Dear Editor, The recent essay by Prof. Abigail Thompson (A word from… Abigail Thompson Notices of the AMS 66(11):1778.9) presents a view that is extremely detrimental to the mathematics community in general. This article was par.ticularly toxic for multiple reasons. Prof. Thompson does not have the luxury of whitewashing a controversial (and factually wrong) view by simply starting the essay with the sentence “This essay contains my opinions as an individual.” Prof. Thompson can write a letter to an editor if she wants to present her opinions; the fact that she can express a poorly articulated argument in such a prominent place is in itself the definition of “privilege.” Straight to the substance of the matter. The center of the diatribe by Prof. Thompson is that: A typical rubric from UC Berkeley specifies that a statement that “describes only activities that are already the expectation of Berkeley faculty (mentoring, treating all students the same regard.less of background, etc)” (italics mine) merits a score of 1–2 out of a possible 5 (1 worst and 5 best) in the second section of the rubric, the “track record for advancing diversity” category. Prof. Thompson expressed bewilderment by the fact that treating all students the same regardless of background is considered a poor response in terms of diversity awareness. I had the misfortune of encountering this worldview repeat.edly in the AMS community, and that is why I renounced to be a member of the AMS (after a decade of membership). I have on my desk, as Chair of the Department of Mathemat.ics at the University of Texas at San Antonio, the invitation to have our majors and graduate students join the AMS via an institutional membership. I cannot send, in good faith, my students to the wolves. I also have the invitation to at.tend the AMS Department Chairs Workshop, but attending would be a tacit acceptance of the AMS’ tacit approval of Prof. Thompson’s view. I simply cannot sell my soul. All people are born with the same rights (even Prof. Thompson might agree with that), but not everybody grows with the same opportunities. It is very easy to be born in third-base and go around life boasting that you hit a home run, asking others “Why have you not achieved what I have… perhaps you have not worked as hard?” This is the crux of the matter. Inclusivity and diversity in academia (and society in general) is not achieved simply by tapping some source of high performing “students of color” that other college recruiters have overlooked. It is achieved, instead, by rec.ognizing that access to opportunity in the US still depends on the circumstances of birth, and this affects who and how starts college. Of course, it is easy to be oblivious of this matter if one attends, let’s say Wellesley and Rutgers, as Prof. Thompson did. However, for the vast rest of us, reality is very different. Not recognizing that we cannot treat all students the same results in universities becoming instruments that amplify socioeconomic distances instead of being vehicles for eliminating disparities. Publishing the article by Prof. Thompson is a failure of the editorial checks at the AMS. It is acceptable to have divergent opinions, and we should be able to discuss those with civility and absolute respect. What is not acceptable is to promote views born in ignorance of the reality of the society we serve as professors. There are many other disput.able statements in Prof. Thompson’s essay, but they are too many and I will let other point to those flaws. Sincerely, Juan B. Gutiérrez, PhD Professor and Chair of Mathematics University of Texas at San Antonio (Received December 17, 2019) In support of Dr. Abigail Thompson, academic freedom, and viewpoint diversity I am writing to commend Dr. Abigail Thompson for her leadership and courage to write a very thoughtful editorial1 on the use of diversity statements for faculty hiring, and specifically on the politicized rubric2 constructed by UC Berkeley, and to commend Dr. Erica Flapan for the courage to publish it. In case you missed it, the crux of her argument is that “requiring candidates to believe that people should be treated differently according to their identity is indeed a polit.ical test,” and that should be juxtaposed with the classical liberal viewpoint that every person should be treated as a unique individual. The UC Berkeley diversity score favors one viewpoint over the other, making it a political test. A similar argument, in more extended form, was previously made in a well-researched white paper by Dr. Bruce Gilley.3 Hidden in plain sight is the observation that there is nothing for a job candidate to add on top of what can be explained with a cover letter, a curriculum vitae, a teaching statement, and a research statement, since candidates who have a record of diversity-related contributions have the choice to report on them in these other documents. There.fore, it is not unreasonable to surmise that the sole purpose/ function of asking for separate diversity statements in job applications, is to frontload them ahead of consideration of the entire application, and use a scoring system to weed out “politically incorrect” candidates, without looking at the entire application holistically. What we are seeing in UC Berkeley is the beta-test for what will eventually be deployed at the national level. Those of us who have a tenured position will not be off the hook, when frontloaded diversity scoring is introduced in tenure and promotion evaluation and, even worse, in post-tenure review. According an earlier article by Robert 1A. Thompson, Notices of the American Mathematical Society 66, 1778–1779, 2019 2https://ofew.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/rubric_to _assess_candidate_contributions_to_diversity_equity_and _inclusion.pdf 3Bruce Gilley, “The Imposition of Diversity Statements on Faculty Hiring and Promotion at Oregon Universities,” Oregon Association of Scholars, 2017, https://www.oregonscholars.org/wp-content/uploads /2017/01/DiversityStatements_Rev16Mar17.pdf Shibley,4 diversity statements are also being used at UCLA, not only for hiring, but also for faculty evaluation, with the article further explaining how that violates academic freedom and undermines public trust in academia. Our hiring practices and faculty evaluation practices should remain apolitical and meritocratic, focused on recognizing excellence in teaching, research, and service, with the under.standing that Mathematics faculty have varied interests, and varied strengths and weaknesses, and a diversity of talent is needed to make the whole strong. The retaliation attempt to damage Dr. Thompson’s career and to bully the AMS towards practicing censorship against one speaking truth to power is frightening, and I unequivocally condemn it. Free speech, academic freedom, and a diversity of viewpoints are fundamental principles of academic life, and speech that we disagree with should be confronted with more free speech, and not with per.sonal attacks, “cancel” culture, and “public shaming.” An interesting perspective on the deeper issues that underlie the recent rise of hostility towards freedom of expression is given in the book5 by Lukianoff and Haidt. The best way forward is to stand for and unify under universal princi.ples of freedom, fairness, and justice applied equally to everyone, and to live by the ideal of servant leadership. An encouraging development in this direction is the adoption of the Chicago principles on free speech6 by 70 institutions7 over a short period of 5 years. Yours sincerely, Eleftherios Gkioulekas University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (Received December 23, 2019) Abby  Thompson’s opinion piece The UC system could streamline the vetting process on Diversity and Inclusion. Instead of having candidates write an essay, just add a box on job applications, with the statement “I believe in treating everyone with dignity and respect, without consideration of religion, race, or gender.” By definition, this will exclude folks who discriminate. And the resources that would be spent on expanding the al.ready massive higher education bureaucracy could instead be devoted to providing more scholarships to students, and hiring more faculty. More troops on the ground, fewer generals. 4Robert Shibley, “UCLA diversity requirement threatens academic freedom, trust in academia,” 2018, https://www.thefire.org/ucla-diversity -requirement-threatens-academic-freedom-trust-in-academia/ 5G. Lukianoff and J. Haidt: “The Coddling of the American Mind,” Penguin Random House, New York NY, 2018 6https://freeexpression.uchicago.edu/ 7https://www.thefire.org/chicago-statement-university -and-faculty-body-support/ Kudos to Dr. Thompson for having the courage to call out the budding Berias. Dr. Hal Schenck Rosemary Kopel Brown Eminent Scholars Chair Department of Mathematics Auburn University (Received December 27, 2019) Diversity I joined the Mathematics Department at UC Davis in 1966 and worked there for 30 years. When I joined it was a good service department but, with the exception of a few indi.viduals, it was mathematically insignificant. Since then it reached unquestionable mathematical prominence. This was achieved by screening faculty applicants primarily for their mathematical ability. If their political views were considered, some may not have been hired. Thus I applaud Professor Abigail Thompson for making it clear in her articles (Notices of AMS, Dec. 2019 and Wall Street Journal, Dec. 20, 2019) that the commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion is a political issue that has nothing in com.mon with excellence in mathematics. The response from UC Davis (WSJ, Letters, Dec. 27, 2019) was disappointing. I can understand why the vice chancellor for GE&I attaches more importance to such commitment than to professional capability—it may be part of her job description. However, it is most regrettable that the chancellor of the UC Davis shares her attitude. Washek F. Pfeffer, Professor Emeritus Tucson, AZ (Received December 29, 2019) 